# <a name="%WEB% Web Preferences"></a><a name=" %WEB% Web Preferences"></a> %WEB% Web Preferences

The following settings are **_web preferences_** of the [[%WEB%|WEB/WebHome]] web. These preferences overwrite the **_site-level preferences_** in [[%SYSTEMWEB%.TWikiPreferences|SYSTEMWEB/TWikiPreferences]] and [[Main.TWikiPreferences|Main/TWikiPreferences]], and can be overwritten by **_user preferences_** (your personal topic, eg: %USERSWEB%.admin in the [[%USERSWEB%|USERSWEB/WebHome]] web).

<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#Web Preferences Settings"> Web Preferences Settings</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

## <a name="Web Preferences Settings"></a> Web Preferences Settings

These settings override the defaults for this web only. See [[full list of defaults with explanation|SYSTEMWEB/TWikiPreferences#DefaultWebPreferences]]. Many of the settings below are commented out. Remove the # sign to enable a local customisation.

- List of topics of the %WEB% web:
  - #Set WEBTOPICLIST = %WEBTOPICLIST%

<div style="background-color: %WEBBGCOLOR%; float: right">  %WEBBGCOLOR%  </div>

- Web-specific background color: (Pick a lighter one of the %SYSTEMWEB%.StandardColors).
  - Set WEBBGCOLOR = #DDDDDD
  - **_Note:_** This setting is automatically configured when you create a web

- Image, URL and alternate tooltip text of web's logo.%BR% **_Note:_** Don't add your own local logos to the %SYSTEMWEB%.TWikiLogos topic; create your own logos topic instead.
  - #Set WEBLOGOIMG = %WEBLOGOIMG%
  - #Set WEBLOGOURL = %WEBLOGOURL%
  - #Set WEBLOGOALT = %WEBLOGOALT%

- List this web in the %SYSTEMWEB%.SiteMap. If you want the web listed, then set SITEMAPLIST to `on`, do not set NOSEARCHALL, and add the "what" and "use to..." description for the site map. Use links that include the name of the web, i.e. %WEB%.Topic links.%BR% **_Note:_** Unlike other variables, the setting of SITEMAPLIST is **not** inherited from parent webs. It has to be set in **every** web that is to be listed in the %SYSTEMWEB%.SiteMap %BR%
  - Set SITEMAPLIST = on
  - Set SITEMAPWHAT =
  - Set SITEMAPUSETO =
  - **_Note:_** Above settings are automatically configured when you create a web

- Exclude web from a `web="all"` search: (Set to `on` for hidden webs).
  - Set NOSEARCHALL =
  - **_Note:_** This setting is automatically configured when you create a web

- Prevent automatic linking of [[WikiWords]] and acronyms (if set to `on`); link WikiWords (if empty); can be overwritten by web preferences:
  - #Set NOAUTOLINK = %NOAUTOLINK%
  - **_Note:_** You can still use the `[[...][...]]` syntax to link topics if you disabled WikiWord linking. The `<noautolink> ... </noautolink>` syntax can be used to prevents links within a block of text.

- Default template for **new topics** for this web:
  - [[WebTopicEditTemplate]]: Default template for new topics in this web. (Site-level is used if topic does not exist)
  - [[%SYSTEMWEB%.WebTopicEditTemplate|SYSTEMWEB/WebTopicEditTemplate]]: Site-level default topic template

- Comma separated list of **forms** that can be attached to topics in this web. See %SYSTEMWEB%.TWikiForms for more information.
  - Set WEBFORMS =

- Users or groups who **_are not_** / **_are_** allowed to **_view_** / **_change_** / **_rename_** topics in the %WEB% web: (See %SYSTEMWEB%.TWikiAccessControl).
  - Set DENYWEBVIEW =
  - Set ALLOWWEBVIEW =
  - Set DENYWEBCHANGE =
  - Set ALLOWWEBCHANGE =
  - Set DENYWEBRENAME =
  - Set ALLOWWEBRENAME =

- Users or groups allowed to change or rename this %TOPIC% topic: (e.g., %USERSWEB%.TWikiAdminGroup)
  - Set ALLOWTOPICCHANGE =
  - Set ALLOWTOPICRENAME =

- Web preferences that are **not** allowed to be overridden by sub-web, user or topic preferences:
  - Set FINALPREFERENCES = NOSEARCHALL, ATTACHFILESIZELIMIT, WIKIWEBMASTER, WEBCOPYRIGHT, WEBTOPICLIST, DENYWEBVIEW, ALLOWWEBVIEW, DENYWEBCHANGE, ALLOWWEBCHANGE, DENYWEBRENAME, ALLOWWEBRENAME
