This is a rough outline.

There are basically three options with several variants

- [[KaServer]] -- the standard option to comes with IBMAFS, implements [[KerberosIV]] with some custom features.
- [[KerberosIV]] -- the original MIT implementation, and [[Krb4KTH]], an export version of [[KerberosIVMIT]] (aka "bones"), but with encryption support put back in by the fine folks at KTH.
- [[KerberosV]] -- version five of this protocol has numerous improvements over version four and is available from many sources: MIT, DCE, Microsoft (aka [[ActiveDirectory]]) and [[HeimdalKTH]].

The consensus these days is to use [[KerberosV]], even though lacking native support for V5, AFS still needs various conversion and migration tools. See [[KerberosAFSInstall]] for (what will be) a step-by-step procedure to install a new [[OpenAFS]] cell where authentication is handled by a [[KerberosV]] realm.

For [[KerberosV]], there are two main open-source solutions for Unix: [[KerberosVMIT]] and [[HeimdalKTH]]. A quick comparison of the two:

[[KerberosVMIT]] Advantages:

- Excellent documentation
- The "reference" implementation everyone else uses as a baseline
- Great library support. Third-party software compiles easily with the libraries MIT provides.

[[KerberosVMIT]] Disadvantages:

- Poor integration with AFS. Requires the AFS-Kerberos5 migration kit to work with AFS.
- Export issues

[[HeimdalKTH]] Advantages:

- Excellent integration with AFS.

[[HeimdalKTH]] Disadvantages:

- Client API is just different enough from MIT to keep most applications from compiling out of the box.

Note that you can mix-and-match. Currently I'm using a [[HeimdalKTH]] KDC with [[KerberosVMIT]] clients. If you take this route the one big thing to watch out for is administrative tools - kadmin, kpasswd, and such.

Some other topics that should be explained.

- SSH -- There are two issues. First is mutually authenticating you and the SSH server to each other using Kerberos. See [[KerberosV]] for a link to patches to kerberize [[OpenSSH]]. Second is passing local AFS authentication to the remote shell (in this case an AFS Client) in the form of AFS service tickets (tokens).
  - these instructions from [[CharlesClancy]] for building openssh might be useful <http://lists.openafs.org/pipermail/openafs-info/2002-January/002846.html>
  - another perspective from Owen LeBlanc <http://lists.openafs.org/pipermail/openafs-info/2002-January/002856.html>
  - [[SSHKeyAuthentication]]
- How to choose between [[KaServer]], [[KerberosVMIT]], [[HeimdalKTH]] and [[ActiveDirectory]].
- [[StringToKey]] issues.
- Authenticating applications that need AFS access and can't depend upon human interaction to enter a password.
- [[ProcessAuthenticationGroups]] (aka PAGs).
- [[KeyVersonNumber]] (aka kvno) synchronization.
- [[AccessControlLists]] (aka ACLs).
- [[IPAccessControl]] -- how to put IP addrs on ACLs
- How to configure various authentication servers to issue tickets (tokens) with lifetimes longer than 25 hours.
- [[IntegrationWithNIS]]. See the [[GeneralFAQ#1_05_d_Improved_security]], but basically you use NIS vis NSS for names of users and Kerberos via PAM for authentication. There is still the question of integrating group management.
- [[OtherGroupServers]] are not well integrated as far as I know. The big ones are [[ActiveDirectory]] and [[NIS]] and maybe some LDAP systems. While one could imagine wrapping a [[PtServer]] interface around such a thing, there are probably some features that would make seamless integration difficult. Has anyone seriously looked into this?
  - In a 10-Oct-2002 message from Derrick Brashear: <q>...something to allow LDAP queries of the PTS database... /afs/andrew.cmu.edu/usr/shadow/back-pts.tar.gz / The README inside explains how it works.</q>

-- Ted Anderson - 22-24, 29 Jan 2002<br /> -- Jason Garman - 30 Jan 2002<br /> -- Ted Anderson - 06-07 Feb, 11 Oct 2002<br /> -- Ted Anderson - 27 Feb 2003<br />

----

See [[AuthCommands]].
