If you have configured the machine to use the ml dynamic loader program, reboot the machine and log in again as the local superuser root.

       # cd /

       # shutdown -i6 -g0 -y

       login: root
       Password: root_password

Issue the chkconfig command to activate the afsserver configuration variable.

       # /etc/chkconfig -f afsserver on

If you have configured this machine as an AFS client and want to it remain one, also issue the chkconfig command to activate the afsclient configuration variable.

       # /etc/chkconfig -f afsclient on

Run the AFS initialization script.

       # /etc/init.d/afs  start

[[Confirm Cache Manager Initialization|ConfirmCacheManagerInitialization]]

## <a name="Automatically Start AFS on Syste"></a> Automatically Start AFS on System Boot

Now that you have confirmed that the AFS initialization script works correctly, take the action necessary to have it run automatically at each reboot.

Change to the /etc/init.d directory and issue the ln -s command to create symbolic links that incorporate the AFS initialization script into the IRIX startup and shutdown sequence.

       # cd /etc/init.d

       # ln -s ../init.d/afs /etc/rc2.d/S35afs

       # ln -s ../init.d/afs /etc/rc0.d/K35afs

(Optional) There are now copies of the AFS initialization file in both the /usr/vice/etc and /etc/init.d directories. If you want to avoid potential confusion by guaranteeing that they are always the same, create a link between them. You can always retrieve the original script from the AFS CD-ROM if necessary.

       # cd /usr/vice/etc

       # rm afs.rc

       # ln -s  /etc/init.d/afs  afs.rc
