# <a name="Pending and Desired _OpenAFS Pro"></a> Pending and Desired [[OpenAFS]] Projects

<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#Pending and Desired _OpenAFS Pro"> Pending and Desired OpenAFS Projects</a><ul>
        <li><a href="#Pending Projects"> Pending Projects</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Proposed Projects"> Proposed Projects</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

## <a name="Pending Projects"></a> Pending Projects

The following are items known to be in progress, and, where available, a point of contact.

- [[WindowsIFS]] -- Implement AFS as a Windows installable file system instead of as a virtual SMB server. In Progress. Contact Jeffrey Altman

- [[WindowsAFSServers]] - Stabilize the AFS Servers running on Microsoft Windows. Contact Jeffrey Altman

- [[DisconnectedOperation]] provides the ability to use AFS while not connected to a network.

- [[FreeBSDPort]] -- Server ported. Cache manager available, not stable yet.

- [[HPUX11Port|HP-UX11Port]] -- Missing RX code reconstructed. Header needed, available from HP. Available in 1.2.10.

- [[NetBSDPort]] -- No timeline available.

- [[OpenBSDPort]] -- In progress. Cache manager available, not stable yet.

- [[AutoConf]] with automake too. In progress. Contact Derrick Brashear.

- [[AmandaBackup]] -- Support for backup using [Amanda](http://www.amanda.org). In progress. Contact Mitch Collinsworth.

- [[BetterDocumentation]] -- Contact Russ Allbery

- [[MaemoPort]] -- Porting to the Nokia N8x0 Internet Tablet. Contact Derrick Brashear or Jason Edgecombe

## <a name="Proposed Projects"></a> Proposed Projects

The following are items which have been proposed, but which are not yet in progress. A point of contact is included where appropriate.

- [[SupportIPv6]]

- [[MultipleClones]] provides support for more than one backup and read-only volume for a single read/write.

- Selectable Ubik Tie Breaker -- proposes to change lowest IP metric to something administrator-selectable.

- [[VolumeDumpEditor]] -- Need tool to allow editing volume dumps.

- [[BetterServerPreferences]] allow selectable continuous or on-demand server preferences in clients based on available information about Rx connection round trip times instead of classful networking approach currently used. Contact Derrick Brashear. _Do this for vldb servers too, or is that a separate project? Ted Anderson_

- [[NFSTranslatorServer]] -- Create an AFS/NFS translator for [[OpenAFS]] because there were licensing issues with the code in the IBM/Transarc product. A Solaris-only version will be supported with and after 1.2.8. Another approach is a user-mode implementation. Contact Jeffrey Hutzelman.

- [[PartitionUUID]] -- Create partition UUIDs such that the vldb can be rapdily updated if a disk is moved from one machine to another. Contact Derrick Brashear.

- [[ByteRangeLocks]] would improve support for applications that use them especially those on Windows platforms.

\* Revamping the Callback mechanism. See discussion on afs3-standardization at openafs.org mailing list.

- [[AutomatedTests]] - Have buildbot automatically run unit tests on a regular basis. Contact Jason Edgecombe

----

Copied by Ted Anderson with some minor edits from <http://www.openafs.org/projects.html> (dated 17-Oct-2001).

----

## <a name="Discussion"></a> Discussion
