This page describes how to use the DKMS OpenAFS package to build
and install an OpenAFS kernel module for your RPM linux based system.
This may be needed if there is not a pre-build kernel module for your
platform and/or kernel version. DMKS is a system to used to build
Linux kernel modules which are not included in the maintained in the
mainline Linux code.


Configure yum for DKMS
----------------------

yum needs to be configured to install packages from the EPEL (Extra Packages
for Enterprise Linux) repository so you can install dkms.  You may already have
yum configured to pull from EPEL. You can check with yum,

     $ yum repolist | grep epel
     * epel: mirror.cogentco.com
     epel         Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux 5 - x86_64       enabled: 6,330

If you do not have yum configured to use EPEL, then you can add it with an rpm
command, for example,

    sudo rpm -Uhv http://download.fedora.redhat.com/pub/epel/5/i386/epel-release-5-4.noarch.rpm

See <http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL/FAQ#How_can_I_install_the_packages_from_the_EPEL_software_repository>


Configure yum for OpenAFS
-------------------------

yum needs to be configured to install openafs packages.  An openafs repository
configuration is available on dl.openafs.org:

     $ sudo rpm -Uvh http://dl.openafs.org/dl/openafs/<version>/openafs-repository-rhel-<version>-1.noarch.rpm


Kernel Packages
---------------

You will need to have a kernel-devel package which matches your running kernel
version.  Assuming you want the most recent kernel, you can do this by doing a
yum update of the kernel and kernel-devel packages. 

    $ sudo yum update kernel kernel-devel

You will need to restart your system if the kernel was updated.  To verify you
have a kernel-devel that matches your kernel version, you can run

     $ yum list 'kernel*'


Tools
-----

Install the dkms package and compiler:

     $ sudo yum install dkms gcc


OpenAFS Client
--------------

Install the openafs client packages, including the dkms-openafs package to have
the kernel module built for your kernel version.

     $ sudo yum install openafs openafs-krb5 dkms-openafs

Startup the client with,

     service openafs-client start


At this point you should have a working openafs kernel module.
