See also [[NewSiteDesign]]

Preliminary modified sitemap can be seen at [http://share.xmind.net/\_embed/summatusmentis/openafs-website-1/](http://share.xmind.net/_embed/summatusmentis/openafs-website-1/) . However, this is incredibly dirty, and difficult to read. ATTEMPT AT YOUR OWN RISK. Will be working to clean it up and this page will be updated when the cleaner version is available.

The textual outline below is not as clear as the visual sitemap should be upon clean-up. Still mostly valid however.

#### <a name="OpenAFS General Information (mel"></a> [[OpenAFS]] General Information (meld with some portions of news?)

- **Features**
  - Scalability
  - Distributed nature
  - Secure
  - WAN
  - benefits of [[OpenAFS]] over others
- **Releases**
  - General release cycle timeframe (or goals)
  - recommended releases (with links)
    - Could point to **Releases**
  - Could point to **Installation**
- **Installation**
  - How to setup a basic cell
    - Could point to **Releases**
  - where to look for more in-depth needs
  - Companies/consultants that will get you up and running (?)
- **Supported Hardware**
  - perhaps not
  - companies bundling AFS with hardware?
- **Mirrors (maybe)**
  - Process for mirroring AFS packages
  - current mirrors
- **Applications**
  - suggested uses for AFS
    - perhaps re-direct to **Features**
- **Ports**
  - potentially not needed, relates to downloads
  - credit for ports?
  - centralized location for porters to post information
- **Commercial Support**
  - Secure Endpoints
  - Sine Nomine
  - Linux Box
  - Others?
  - potentially paid advertising? or free advertising based on Foundation membership?
- **Administration**
  - Foundation administration
  - Gatekeepers
  - Elders
  - Usage of Andy/logos/copyrights
- **Workshops(?)**
  - Information on upcoming/current workshops
  - archives of presentations of past internships
- **Getting Started with [[OpenAFS]]**
  - Overview of what [[OpenAFS]] is
  - Could point to **Installation**
  - How to setup a basic cell
  - Where to start developing/contributing

##### <a name="Get _OpenAFS"></a> Get [[OpenAFS]]

- **Get [[OpenAFS]]**
  - Where to get [[OpenAFS]]
    - Binaries
    - Source
  - Suggested download (guessed using javascript)
  - Point to **Releases**
- **Release Information**
  - Release notes
  - Suggested releases (platform based)
  - Make as branch of **Releases**
- **Snapshot Releases**
  - Nightly source snapshots
  - Nightly binaries (not sure on infrastructure?)
  - Make as branch of **Releases**
- **Source Browser (maybe in developers?)**
  - perhaps not necessary if source download is provided above
  - more pertinent under "Developers"

##### <a name="Documentation"></a> Documentation

- **Books (exist?)**
  - links to publisher's sites/ISBN numbers
  - Information about the book
    - intended purposes, etc.
- **FAQ**
- **Articles**
  - Written by others, links outward
  - Tutorials
  - "Why we're using [[OpenAFS]]"
- **Manual Pages**
  - browser?
- **Other Documentation**
  - Links to University/other organization pages
- **Publications**
  - similar to articles
- **Translations (maybe)**
  - available? needed?
- **AFSLore Wiki**
  - a link
  - formalization? under openafs.org domain? structure
- **Contribute Docs**
  - Style guidelines
  - where to send them
  - Docs needing to be written?
  - Standardization
  - protocol vs. usage docs
    - difference in submission?
- **KnowledgeBase**
  - Would allow users to contribute small bits of information
  - Some will point back to **Installation**
  - tutorials could also go here
  - Should be easily searchable
  - potentially wiki based?
- **Success Stories (perhaps)**
  - How to contribute yours
  - Index? List?
- **“Making [[OpenAFS]] work for you and your organization”**
  - What to consider
  - Weighing Pros/Cons
  - Estimated Cost
  - Rough personnel guidelines (how many people will you realistically need)
  - Point to **Documentation**
  - Consulting companies available
  - How to convince your CEO/CIO
  - Point to **Installation**

##### <a name="Community"></a> Community

- **Mailing Lists**
  - Mailing lists available
  - General type of content from each
- **IRC/Jabber**
  - IRC server details
  - Jabber server details
  - general uses for both
    - Jabber seems to be more dev-related
    - IRC is more support related
- **User Groups**
  - Links to their websites
  - short blurbs about each
- **Web Resources**
  - Other resources available
- **Success Stories**
  - How to contribute yours
  - Index?/List?

##### <a name="Developers"></a> Developers

- **CVS/git Repository**
- **Platforms**
  - Platforms supported
  - Platforms needing support
- **Project Ideas**
  - How to submit them
  - screening process?
  - wiki page?
- **Contributing**
  - How to go about contributing
  - Style guidelines
  - licensing preferences/restrictions
- **Weekly Updates (maybe)**
  - current
  - archived
- **Project Contributors**
  - list
- **Roadmap**
  - Planned direction
- **Source Browser (if not in Get OAFS)**
- **Summer of Code**
  - not always available
  - list of suggested/current projects
  - past project statuses
- **Dev/Port docs (maybe?)**
  - Suggestions as to how to go about porting to new platforms
  - things to look for/pay attention to

##### <a name="Support"></a> Support

- **Commercial Support**
  - Point back to **Commercial Support**
- **Security Information**
  - Security Holes/Patches
- **Bug Reports**
  - Make as branch from **Developers Site**
  - Pertinent information
  - How to submit
- **Web Resources**

#### <a name="Foundation"></a> Foundation

- **The [[OpenAFS]] Foundation**
  - What is it
  - How do I participate?
- **Donate**
  - Channels

##### <a name="News"></a> News

- **Newsflash**
  - Current news
- **Official Press Releases**
  - From the foundation?
- **OpenAFS in the press**
  - Press coverage of [[OpenAFS]] (NJIT releases, for instance)
- **Events**
  - Workshops
  - Hackathons
  - Summer of Code
- **Status Reports (same as Support-&gt;Web Resources)**

##### <a name="Platforms (perhaps not needed, e"></a> Platforms (perhaps not needed, entirely?)

- **Windows**
  - Recommended version
  - Private builds?
- **Linux (RHEL, Fedora, Debian, Ubuntu)**
  - Recommended version
- **AIX**
  - Recommended version
- **FreeBSD**
  - Recommended version
- **HP/UX**
  - Recommended version
- **SGI Irix**
  - Recommended version
- **Mac OS X**
  - Recommended version
- **Sun**
  - Recommended version

##### <a name="Projects"></a> Projects

- **Current/On-Going projects**
  - List?
  - Project pages?
- **Third party tools**
  - project pages (local vs. external?)
- **Project Ideas**
  - list of projects people would like to see
    - details on each
    - wiki page vs. site?

-- Jacob Thebault Spieker - 24 Nov 2008
