**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% Web Preferences**

The following settings are **_web preferences_** of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. These preferences overwrite the **_site-level preferences_** in [[TWikiPreferences]], and can be overwritten by **_user preferences_** (your personal topic, i.e. [[TWikiGuest]] in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.Main web)

**_Preferences:_**

- List of topics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web:
  - Set WEBTOPICLIST = %WEB% . \{ [Home](WebHome) | [Users](TWikiUsers) | [Offices](OfficeLocations) | [Changes](WebChanges) | [Index](WebIndex) | [Search](WebSearch) | Go <input name="topic" size="16" type="text" />
 \}

- Web specific background color:
  - Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0

- Exclude web from a `web="all"` search: (Set to `on` for hidden webs)
  - Set NOSEARCHALL =

- Users or groups who **_are not_** / **_are_** allowed to change topics in the %WEB% web: (See [[TWikiAccessControl]])
  - Set DENYWEBCHANGE =
  - Set ALLOWWEBCHANGE =

- Users or groups allowed to change this %TOPIC% topic: (I.e. [[TWikiAdminGroup]])
  - Set ALLOWTOPICCHANGE =

- Web preferences that are **not** allowed to be overridden by user preferences:
  - Set FINALPREFERENCES = WEBTOPICLIST, DENYWEBVIEW, ALLOWWEBVIEW, DENYWEBCHANGE, ALLOWWEBCHANGE

**_Notes:_**

- A preference is defined as: <br />`6 spaces * Set NAME = value`<br /> Example:
  - Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0
- Preferences are used as [[TWikiVariables]] by enclosing the name in percent signs. Example:
  - When you write variable `%WEBBGCOLOR%` , it gets expanded to `%WEBBGCOLOR%` .
- The sequential order of the preference settings is significant. Define preferences that use other preferences first, i.e. set `WEBCOPYRIGHT` before `WIKIWEBMASTER` since `%WEBCOPYRIGHT%` uses the `%WIKIWEBMASTER%` variable.
- You can introduce new preferences variables and use them in your topics and templates. There is no need to change the %WIKITOOLNAME% engine (Perl scripts).

**_Related Topics:_**

- [[TWikiPreferences]] has site-level preferences.
- [[TWikiUsers]] has a list of user topics. User topics can have optional user preferences.
- [[TWikiVariables]] has a list of common `%VARIABLES%` .
- [[TWikiAccessControl]] explains how to restrict access by users or groups.
