# <a name="Package &lt;code&gt;="></a> Package =

**extends** `CGI::Session::Driver::DBI `

<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#Package =="> Package ==</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

=head1 NAME

CGI::Session::Driver::postgresql - [[PostgreSQL]] driver for CGI::Session

=head1 SYNOPSIS

use CGI::Session; $session = new CGI::Session("driver:PostgreSQL", undef, \{Handle=&gt;$dbh\});

=head1 DESCRIPTION

CGI::Session::PostgreSQL is a L&lt;CGI::Session|CGI::Session&gt; driver to store session data in a [[PostgreSQL]] table.

=head1 STORAGE

Before you can use any DBI-based session drivers you need to make sure compatible database table is created for CGI::Session to work with. Following command will produce minimal requirements in most SQL databases:

CREATE TABLE sessions ( id CHAR(32) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY, a\_session BYTEA NOT NULL );

and within your code use:

use CGI::Session; $session = new CGI::Session("driver:PostgreSQL", undef, \{Handle=&gt;$dbh, [[ColumnType]]=&gt;"binary"\});

Please note the I argument. [[PostgreSQL]]'s text type has problems when trying to hold a null character. (Known as C&lt;"\\0"&gt; in Perl, not to be confused with SQL I). If you know there is no chance of ever having a null character in the serialized data, you can leave off the I attribute. Using a I column type and C&lt;&lt; [[ColumnType]] =&gt; 'binary' &gt;&gt; is recommended when using L&lt;Storable|CGI::Session::Serialize::storable&gt; as the serializer or if there's any possibility that a null value will appear in any of the serialized data.

For more details see L&lt;CGI::Session::Driver::DBI|CGI::Session::Driver::DBI&gt;, parent class.

Also see L, which exercises different method for dealing with binary data.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2002 Cosimo Streppone. All rights reserved. This library is free software and can be modified and distributed under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHORS

Cosimo Streppone &lt;cosimo@cpan.org&gt;, heavily based on the CGI::Session::MySQL driver by Sherzod Ruzmetov, original author of CGI::Session.

Matt [[LeBlanc]] contributed significant updates for the 4.0 release.

=head1 LICENSING

For additional support and licensing see L&lt;CGI::Session|CGI::Session&gt;
