# <a name="Package &lt;code&gt;="></a> Package =

<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#Package =="> Package ==</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

=head1 NAME

CGI::Session::Driver::file - Default CGI::Session driver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

$s = new CGI::Session(); $s = new CGI::Session("driver:file", $sid); $s = new CGI::Session("driver:file", $sid, \{Directory=&gt;'/tmp'\});

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When CGI::Session object is created without explicitly setting I, I will be assumed. I - driver will store session data in plain files, where each session will be stored in a separate file.

Naming conventions of session files are defined by C&lt;$CGI::Session::Driver::file::FileName&gt; global variable. Default value of this variable is I&lt;cgisess\_%s&gt;, where %s will be replaced with respective session ID. Should you wish to set your own [[FileName]] template, do so before requesting for session object:

$CGI::Session::Driver::file::FileName = "%s.dat"; $s = new CGI::Session();

For backwards compatibility with 3.x, you can also use the variable name C&lt;$CGI::Session::File::FileName&gt;, which will override the one above.

=head2 DRIVER ARGUMENTS

If you wish to specify a session directory, use the B option, which denotes location of the directory where session ids are to be kept. If B is not set, defaults to whatever File::Spec-&gt;tmpdir() returns. So all the three lines in the SYNOPSIS section of this manual produce the same result on a UNIX machine.

If specified B does not exist, all necessary directory hierarchy will be created.

By default, sessions are created with a umask of 0660. If you wish to change the umask for a session, pass a B option with an octal representation of the umask you would like for said session.

=head1 NOTES

If your OS doesn't support flock, you should understand the risks of going without locking the session files. Since sessions tend to be used in environments where race conditions may occur due to concurrent access of files by different processes, locking tends to be seen as a good and very necessary thing. If you still want to use this driver but don't want flock, set C&lt;$CGI::Session::Driver::file::NoFlock&gt; to 1 or pass C&lt;&lt; [[NoFlock]] =&gt; 1 &gt;&gt; and this driver will operate without locks.

=head1 LICENSING

For support and licensing see L&lt;CGI::Session|CGI::Session&gt;
