# <a name="Include Topics and Web Pages Usi"></a><a name=" Include Topics and Web Pages Us"></a> Include Topics and Web Pages Using <code>**%INCLUDE\{...\}%**</code> Variable

Use the <code>**%INCLUDE\{...\}%**</code> variable to embed the content of another topic or web page inside a %WIKITOOLNAME% topic. The whole content or only parts of a page can be included. If needed, set a proxy server in [[TWikiPreferences]].

<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#Syntax"> Syntax</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Usage Examples"> Usage Examples</a><ul>
        <li><a href="#1. Display regression test resul"> 1. Display regression test results in a TWiki page</a></li>
        <li><a href="#2. Display Google's robot.txt fi"> 2. Display Google's robot.txt file</a></li>
        <li><a href="#3. Display the current time in T"> 3. Display the current time in Tokyo in a TWiki page</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

## <a name="Syntax"></a> Syntax

<code>**%INCLUDE\{ "page" pattern="reg-exp" rev="1.2" \}%**</code>

- <code>**"page"**</code>: %BR% The nameless parameter specifies the page to include. It is
  - The name of a topic located in the current web, e.g., <code>**%INCLUDE\{"WebNotify"\}%**</code>
  - A `Web.Topic` name specifying a topic in another web, e.g., <code>**%INCLUDE\{"TWiki.SiteMap"\}%**</code>
  - A full qualified URL with <code>**http**</code> protocol, domain name and optional port number, e.g., <code>**%INCLUDE\{"http://twiki.org:80/index.html"\}%**</code>. Supported content types are <code>**text/html**</code> and <code>**text/plain**</code>. The full page is included by default, but the HTML header and scripts are stripped in case it is a web page.

- <code>**pattern="reg-exp"**</code>: %BR% The **pattern** parameter is optional and allows you to extract some parts of a web page. Specify a [[RegularExpression]] that scans from start (`'^'`) to end and contains the text you want to keep in parenthesis, e.g., <code>**pattern="^.\*?(from here.\*?to here).\*"**</code>. You need to make sure that the integrity of a web page is not compromised; for example, if you include a table, make sure to include everything including the table end tag.

- <code>**rev="1.x"**</code>: %BR% The **rev** parameter is optional and allows you to include an earlier revision of a topic. This can be used to include an official version of a topic, e.g. one that has been signed of by management. This parameter does not apply to URLs.

**_Note:_** All text of a topic is included unless you specify <code>**%STARTINCLUDE%**</code>, <code>**%STOPINCLUDE%**</code> and/or a **pattern** parameter. A pattern will only search between <code>**%STARTINCLUDE%**</code> and <code>**%STOPINCLUDE%**</code>.

## <a name="Usage Examples"></a> Usage Examples

### <a name="1. Display regression test resul"></a> 1. Display regression test results in a TWiki page

      <pre>
      %INCLUDE{"http://domain/~qa/v1.1/REDTest.log.txt"}%
      </pre>

### <a name="2. Display Google&#39;s robot.txt fi"></a> 2. Display Google's robot.txt file

- You type:
  - <code>**%INCLUDE\{"http://www.google.com/robots.txt"\}%**</code>

### <a name="3. Display the current time in T"></a> 3. Display the current time in Tokyo in a TWiki page

- You type:
  - <code>**Tokyo: %INCLUDE\{"http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/xtra/tzdate?tz=Asia/Tokyo" pattern="^.\*&lt;\\!--tzdate:date--&gt;(.\*?)&lt;\\!--/tzdate:date--&gt;.\*"\}%**</code>
- You get:
  - Tokyo:

See also other [[TWikiVariables]].

-- TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny - 15 Aug 2004
