**Main Features of TWiki**

- **Any web browser:** Edit existing pages or create new pages by using any web browser. There is no need to upload pages.
- **Edit link:** To edit a page, simply click on the <code>**Edit**</code> link at the bottom of the page.
- **Auto links:** Web pages are [[linked automatically|Main/WikiWord]]. You do not need to learn HTML commands to link pages.
- **Text formatting:** Simple, powerful and easy-to-learn [[text formatting rules|Main/WikiSyntax]]. Basically you write text like you would write an e-mail.
- **Webs:** Pages are grouped into [[TWiki webs|TWiki/SiteMap]] (or collections). This allows you to set up separate collaboration groups.
- **Search:** [[Full text search|Main/WebSearch]] with/without regular expressions. See a sample [search result](http://www.dementia.org/twiki//search/TWiki/?scope=text&search=learn).
- **E-mail notification:** Get [[automatically notified|Main/WebChangesAlert]] when something has changed in a TWiki web.
- **Structured content:** Use [[TWikiForms]] to classify and categorize unstructured web pages and to create simple workflow systems.
- **File attachments:** [[Upload|Main/FileAttachment]] and download any file as an attachment to a page by using your browser. This is similar to file attachments in an e-mail, but it happens on web pages.
- **Revision control:** All changes to pages and attachments are tracked. Retrieve previous page revisions; compare differences; find out who changed what and when.
- **Access control:** Define groups and impose fine-grained read and write [[access restrictions|Main/TWikiAccessControl]] based on groups and users.
- **Variables:** Use [[variables|Main/TWikiVariables]] to dynamically compose your pages. This allows you for example to dynamically build a table of contents, include other pages, or show a search result embedded in a page.
- **TWiki plugins:** Easily install program enhancements using external [[plug-in modules|Main/TWikiPlugins]]. Developers can create plug-ins in Perl using the TWiki Plugin API.
- **Templates and skins:** A flexible [[templating system|Main/TWikiTemplates]] separates program logic and presentation. [[Skins|Main/TWikiSkins]] overwrite template headers and footers; page content is unaffected.
- **Managing pages:** Individual [[pages|Main/TWikiTopics]] can be renamed, moved and deleted through the browser.
- **Managing users:** Web-based [[user registration|Main/TWikiRegistration]] and [[change of password|Main/ChangePassword]].
- **Statistics:** Create statistics of TWiki webs. Find out most popular pages and top contributors.
- **Preferences:** Three levels of preferences: [[TWikiPreferences]] for site-level, [[WebPreferences]] for each web, and user level preferences.
- **Topic locking:** Users are warned if a page is being edited by another person. This is to prevent [[simultaneous page editing|Main/SimultaneousEdits]].
- **Referred-By:** Find the pages that contain links to a topic.
