## <a name="TWiki is a Web-based collaborati"></a> TWiki is a Web-based collaboration platform

- A TWiki site is an easy-to-use, full-featured open communications environment:
  - people anywhere on the Web or on an intranet can meet
  - rich Web text, images, and online multimedia are easily shared
  - documents and other files can be uploaded and downloaded
  - all you need is a Web browser and any available network connection

## <a name="TWiki is an UNUSUAL Web-based co"></a> TWiki is an UNUSUAL Web-based collaboration platform

- There's no doubt that, to most people, TWiki at first seems almost the opposite of how the Web and online communications "normally" work. Why?
  - TWiki operates like a whiteboard for the Web - it lets you and all other users write, place pictures and post links, anywhere on any page.
  - Not only that, everyone can EDIT anything, anywhere on a page.
  - At first, this may seem "too" open - it soon becomes second-nature, allowing you the freedom to edit and update the way you want to.

## <a name="TWiki is a powerful Web enhancem"></a> TWiki is a powerful Web enhancement...

- TWiki's parsing engine is written in Perl. It reads a text file, and converts TWiki shorthand into standard HTML, on the fly. The point is to:
  - make adding and editing text simple _(How simple? Click on the **Edit** link at the bottom of the page...)_
  - let you find information _fast_ ([[WebSearch]])

- TWiki provides an intuitive way for people to meet and collaborate, that aspires to the Zen ideals known as [[WabiSabi]]. It finds beauty in the imperfect and ephemeral and constantly evolving. (When it comes down to it, that's all you need.)

- TWiki is one of many [[WikiWikiClones]], based on Ward Cunningham's original [Wiki Wiki Web](http://c2.com/).

## <a name="&quot;TWiki&quot; stands for..."></a> "TWiki" stands for...

- _Wiki wiki_ means "quick" in Hawaiian. The shuttle at Honolulu Airport is called the _wiki wiki_ bus, which is where the original Wiki web got its name.
- _TWiki_ is short for _TakeFive Wiki_, the name of the company where its founder Peter Thoeny worked. (It was later discovered that _Twiki_ is also the name of an AI robot that co-starred in the [_Buck Rogers_](http://www.buck-rogers.com/) movie and TV series from 1979.)

## <a name="Selected TWiki Topics..."></a> Selected TWiki Topics...

- [[WelcomeGuest]] is a fast track guide to TWiki
- [[TWikiSite]] provides a basic big picture overview of the TWiki platform
- [[TWikiTopics]] is a quick and concentrated look at the TWiki core
- [[TWikiPlannedFeatures]] lists approved additions to future TWiki versions.
- [[TWikiEnhancementRequests]] is the place to add your new feature requests.
- [[TWiki Documentation|Main/WebHome]]: a compact User's Guide and an in-depth Reference Manual.
- [[TWikiHistory]] puts TWiki development on a timeline
- [[WikiCulture]] looks at the unique type of collaboration Wiki systems offer.
- [[WikiReferences]] links to articles and books about collaboration and Wiki technology.

> %X% If you have to log-in to use TWiki, for example, if TWiki is running on an intranet, it automatically signs pages you edit and create with your
>
> [[WikiName]]
>
> . If your TWiki installation doesn't require a log-in, TWiki gives everyone the same username: %USERSWEB%.TWikiGuest.

## <a name="Disclaimer"></a> Disclaimer

- TWiki<sup>®</sup> is a registered trademarks of TWiki founder [Peter Thoeny](http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Main/PeterThoeny), [TWIKI.NET](http://twiki.net/). The [[TWiki logo|Main/TWikiLogos]] and the "Collaborate with TWiki" tagline are trademarks of Peter Thoeny.
- TWiki is developed as Free Software under the [[GNU/GPL|Main/GnuGeneralPublicLicense]].
- TWiki has its root in the GPLed JosWiki. Many thanks to Markus Peter and Dave Harris for creating JosWiki!
- TWiki's home address is <http://twiki.org/>
- The latest TWiki release is available from <http://twiki.org/download.html>
- This site is powered by TWiki version **TWiki-4.1.2, Sat, 03 Mar 2007, build 13046**

**_Related Topics:_** [[UserDocumentationCategory]]

-- **_Contributors:_** TWiki:Main.MikeMannix, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
