<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#TWiki System Requirements"> TWiki System Requirements</a><ul>
        <li><a href="#Server Requirements"> Server Requirements</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Client Requirements"> Client Requirements</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Known Issues"> Known Issues</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

# <a name="TWiki System Requirements"></a> TWiki System Requirements

_Server and client requirements for TWiki 01-Feb-2003_

Low client and server requirements are core features that keep TWiki widely deployable, particularly across a range of browser platforms and versions.

## <a name="Server Requirements"></a> Server Requirements

TWiki is written in Perl 5, uses a number of shell commands, and requires [RCS (Revision Control System)](http://www.gnu.org/software/rcs/rcs.html), a GNU Free Software package. TWiki is developed in a basic Linux/Apache environment. It also works with Microsoft Windows, and should have no problem on any other platform that meets the requirements.

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Resource </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Required Server Environment * </strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Perl </td>
    <td> 5.005_03 or higher (5.6.1 recommended, 5.8.x does work in most cases, but see TWiki:Codev.IssuesWithPerl5dot8) </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Non-standard Perl modules </td>
    <td> %BULLET% Unix: <code>Net::SMTP</code> (or <code>sendmail</code>) %BB% Windows: <code>Net::SMTP</code>, <code>MIME::Base64</code>, <code>Digest::SHA1</code> %BB% Internationalisation: <code>Unicode::MapUTF8</code>   <font size="-1">(only for non-ISO-8859-1 sites using TWiki:Codev.EncodeURLsWithUTF8 with Perl 5.6 or lower)</font></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> RCS </td>
    <td> 5.7 or higher (including GNU <code>diff</code>) %BR% Optional, but the all-Perl RCS replacement is not currently recommended for live sites - see TWiki:Codev.RcsLite </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> GNU <code>diff</code></td>
    <td> GNU <code>diff</code> 2.7 or higher is required when not using the all-Perl RcsLite. %BR% Install on PATH if not included with RCS (check version with <code>diff -v</code>) %BR% Must be the version used by RCS, to avoid problems with binary attachments - RCS may have hard-coded path to <code>diff</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Other external programs </td>
    <td><code>fgrep, egrep</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Cron/scheduler </td>
    <td> %BULLET% Unix: <code>cron</code> %BB% Windows: <code>cron</code> equivalents </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Web server </td>
    <td> Apache 1.3 is well supported; Apache 2.0 is <strong>not</strong> recommended yet (see TWiki:Codev.IssuesWithApache2dot0). %BR% For other servers, CGI support, authentication, extended path info required; also, the <code>register</code> script is likely to need significant changes </td>
  </tr>
</table>

%X% **\*** _Current documentation mainly covers Linux and Apache installations. See [[WindowsInstallCookbook]] for a Windows installation guide. See TWiki:Codev.TWikiOn for help with installation on various platforms including Unix, MacOS X, Apache `mod_perl`, web hosts, etc._

<a name="ClientRequirements"></a>

## <a name="Client Requirements"></a> Client Requirements

The TWiki [[standard installation|Main/TWikiInstallationGuide]] has extremely low browser requirements:

- HTML 3.2 compliant
- generates XHTML 1.0 pages that are compatible with HTML 3.2
- minimal use of JavaScript in the user interface (degrades gracefully)
- no cookies
- no CSS

You can easily add functionality, by customizing [[TWikiTemplates]], for one, while tailoring the browser requirements to your situation.

## <a name="Known Issues"></a> Known Issues

- The [[TWikiPlugins]] feature currently does not have compatibility guidelines for developers. Plugins can require just about anything - browser-specific functions, stylesheets (CSS), Java applets, cookies, specific Perl modules,... - check the individual Plugin specs.
  - %H% Plugins included in the TWiki distribution do not add requirements.

-- TWiki:Main.MikeMannix - 12 Jan 2002 %BR% -- TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny - 15 Aug 2004
