<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#TWiki Skins"> TWiki Skins</a><ul>
        <li><a href="#Overview"> Overview</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Defining Skins"> Defining Skins</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Variables in Skins"> Variables in Skins</a><ul>
            <li><a href="#The "Go" Box and Navigation Box"> The "Go" Box and Navigation Box</a></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li><a href="#Using Cascading Style Sheets"> Using Cascading Style Sheets</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Attachment Tables"> Attachment Tables</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Packaging and Publishing Skins"> Packaging and Publishing Skins</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Browsing Installed Skins"> Browsing Installed Skins</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Activating Skins"> Activating Skins</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

# <a name="TWiki Skins"></a> TWiki Skins

_Skins overlay regular templates with alternate header/footer layouts; topic text is not affected_

## <a name="Overview"></a> Overview

Skins are customized [[TWikiTemplates]] files. You can use skins to change the look of a %WIKITOOLNAME% topic, for example, the layout of the header and footer. Rendered text between header and footer does **_not_** change. You can also use skins to define an alternate view, like a view optimized for printing.

## <a name="Defining Skins"></a> Defining Skins

Skin files are located in the `twiki/templates` directory and are named with the syntax: <code>**&lt;scriptname&gt;.&lt;skin&gt;.tmpl**</code>. For example, the **Printable** skin for the `view` template is `view.print.tmpl`.

Use the existing [[TWikiTemplates]] (like `view.tmpl`) or skin files as a base for your own skin, name it for example `view.myskin.tmpl`.

## <a name="Variables in Skins"></a> Variables in Skins

You can use [[template variables|Main/TWikiTemplates#TemplateVariables]], [[TWikiVariables]], and other predefined variables to compose your skins. Some commonly used variables in skins:

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Variable: </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Expanded to: </strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WIKILOGOURL%</code></td>
    <td> Link of page logo </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WIKILOGOIMG%</code></td>
    <td> Image URL of page logo </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WIKILOGOALT%</code></td>
    <td> Alt text of page logo </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WEBBGCOLOR%</code></td>
    <td> Web specific background color, defined in the [[Main/WebPreferences]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WIKITOOLNAME%</code></td>
    <td> The name of your TWiki site </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%SCRIPTURL%</code></td>
    <td> The script URL of TWiki </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%SCRIPTSUFFIX%</code></td>
    <td> The script suffix, ex: <code>.pl</code>, <code>.cgi</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WEB%</code></td>
    <td> The name of the current web. <strong><em>Note:</em></strong> It is recommended to URL-encode the variable in form actions with <code>%INTURLENCODE{"%WEB%"}%</code> for proper handling in an internationalized environment </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%TOPIC%</code></td>
    <td> The name of the current topic. <strong><em>Note:</em></strong> It is recommended to URL-encode the variable in form actions with <code>%INTURLENCODE{"%TOPIC%"}%</code> for proper handling in an internationalized environment </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WEBTOPICLIST%</code></td>
    <td> Common links of current web, defined in the [[Main/WebPreferences]]. It includes a [[Main/WebHome#GoBox]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%TEXT%</code></td>
    <td> The topic text, e.g. the content that can be edited </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%META{"form"}%</code></td>
    <td>[[Main/TWikiForms]], if any </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%META{"attachments"}%</code></td>
    <td>[[Main/FileAttachment]] table </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%META{"parent"}%</code></td>
    <td> The topic parent </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%EDITTOPIC%</code></td>
    <td> Edit link </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%REVTITLE%</code></td>
    <td> The revision title, if any, ex: <code>(r1.6)</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%REVINFO%</code></td>
    <td> Revision info, ex: <code>r1.6 - 24 Dec 2002 - 08:12 GMT - Main.admin</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%WEBCOPYRIGHT%</code></td>
    <td> Copyright notice, defined in the [[Main/WebPreferences]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%BROADCASTMESSAGE%</code></td>
    <td> Broadcast message at the beginning of your view template, can be used to alert users of scheduled downtimes; is set in [[Main/TWikiPreferences]]</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<a name="GoBox"></a>

### <a name="The &quot;Go&quot; Box and Navigation Box"></a> The "Go" Box and Navigation Box

The `%WEBTOPICLIST%` includes a "Go" box to jump to a topic. The box also understand URLs, e.g. you can type <http://www.google.com/> to jump to an external web site. The feature is handy if you build a skin that has a select box of frequently used links, like Intranet home, employee database, sales database and such. A little JavaScript gets into action on the onSelect method of the select tag to fill the selected URL into the "Go" box field, then submits the form.

Here is an example form that has a select box and the "Go" box for illustration purposes. You need to have JavaScript enabled for this to work:

<form action="http://www.dementia.org/twiki//view/%WEB%/%TOPIC%" name="sample">
  <table border="3">
    <tr>
      <td><select name="sel" onchange="this.form.topic.value=this.options[this.selectedIndex].value; this.form.submit()"><option selected value="">Navigate...</option>
          <option value="http://www.twiki.org/">Intranet home</option>
          <option value="Main.TWikiUsers">Employee index</option>
          <option value="Main.WebHome">Main web</option>
          <option value="TWiki.WebHome">TWiki web</option>
          <option value="http://www.google.com/">Google</option>
          <option value="http://www.yahoo.com/">Yahoo!</option></select> Bare bones header for demo only </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td> %WEBTOPICLIST% </td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</form>

## <a name="Using Cascading Style Sheets"></a> Using Cascading Style Sheets

Although work is underway at TWiki:Codev.CssClassNames, the regular templates files currently do not use style sheets. Many skin developers, however, choose to use them; it helps in separating style from content.

Example: To use a style sheet for the broadcast message, add this to `view.myskin.tmpl`:

    <style type="text/css">
    .broadcastmessage {
        background: yellow; display:block;
        border-style:solid;border-width: 2px;border-color:red;
    }
    .broadcastmessage strong {color: red}
    </style>

Then add a div tag to the `%BROADCASTMESSAGE%` variable located after the `#PageTop` anchor or after the opening form tag:

    <div class="broadcastmessage"> %BROADCASTMESSAGE% </div>

## <a name="Attachment Tables"></a> Attachment Tables

Controlling the look and feel of attachment tables is a little bit more complex than for the rest of a skin. By default the attachment table is a standard TWiki table, and the look is controlled in the same ay as other tables. In a very few cases you may want to change the _content_ of the table as well.

The format of standard attachment tables is defined through the use of special _TWiki template macros_ which by default are defined in the `templates/twiki.tmpl` template using the `%TMPL:DEF` macro syntax described in [[TWikiTemplates]]. These macros are:

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Macro </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Description </strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:files:header</code></td>
    <td> Standard title bar </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:files:row</code></td>
    <td> Standard row </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:files:footer</code></td>
    <td> Footer for all screens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:files:header:A</code></td>
    <td> Title bar for upload screens, with attributes column </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:files:row:A</code></td>
    <td> Row for upload screen </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:files:footer:A</code></td>
    <td> Footer for all screens </td>
  </tr>
</table>

The format of tables of file versions in the Upload screen are also formattable, using the macros:

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Macro </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Description </strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:versions:header</code></td>
    <td> Header for versions table on upload screen </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:versions:row</code></td>
    <td> Row format for versions table on upload screen </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>ATTACH:versions:footer</code></td>
    <td> Footer for versions table on upload screen </td>
  </tr>
</table>

The `ATTACH:row` macros are expanded for each file in the attachment table, using the following special tags:

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Tag </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Description </strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_URL%</code></td>
    <td> URL that will recover the file </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_REV%</code></td>
    <td> Revision of this file e.g. "1.1" </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_ICON%</code></td>
    <td> A file icon suitable for representing the attachment content </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_FILE%</code></td>
    <td> The name of the file </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_SIZE%</code></td>
    <td> The size of the file </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_DATE%</code></td>
    <td> The date the file was uploaded </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_USER%</code></td>
    <td> The user who uploaded it </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_COMMENT%</code></td>
    <td> The comment they put in when uploading it </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>%A_ATTRS%</code></td>
    <td> The attributes of the file as seen on the upload screen e.g "h" for a hidden file </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Note: it is easy to change the look and feel for an entire site by editing the `twiki.tmpl` template file. However, to simplify upgrading, you should avoid doing this. Instead, write a skin-specific template file e.g. `attach.myskin.tmpl` and use `%TMPL:INCLUDE{attach.myskin.tmpl}%` to include it in each of your skin files. As long as it it included _after_ twiki.tmpl, your macro definitions will override the defaults defined there.

## <a name="Packaging and Publishing Skins"></a> Packaging and Publishing Skins

See TWiki:Plugins/SkinPackagingHowTo and TWiki:Plugins/SkinDeveloperFAQ

## <a name="Browsing Installed Skins"></a> Browsing Installed Skins

You can try all installed skins in [[TWikiSkinBrowser]].

## <a name="Activating Skins"></a> Activating Skins

A skin can be activated in two ways:

- Define the `SKIN` Preference variable in [[TWikiPreferences]], one of the [[WebPreferences]], or in a user - Main.admin - topic.
  - `Set SKIN = print`

- Add `?skin=name` to the URL, for this example:
  - <http://www.dementia.org/twiki//view/%WEB%/%TOPIC%?skin=print> (for the print view skin)
  - <http://www.dementia.org/twiki//view/%WEB%/%TOPIC%?skin=plain> (for the plain view skin that has no header and footer)

The <code>**?skin=name**</code> URL parameter overrides the SKIN Preference value.

-- TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny - 25 Jul 2004 %BR% -- TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie - 30 Jun 2004 %BR%
