# <a name="Appendix A: TWiki Development Ti"></a> Appendix A: TWiki Development Time-line

<div>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#Appendix A: TWiki Development Ti"> Appendix A: TWiki Development Time-line</a><ul>
        <li><a href="#TWiki Release 4.2.4 (Georgeown)"> TWiki Release 4.2.4 (Georgeown) released 00:35:32 06 December 2008</a></li>
        <li><a href="#TWiki Release 4.1 (Edinburgh), 1"> TWiki Release 4.1 (Edinburgh), 16 Jan 2007</a></li>
        <li><a href="#TWiki Release 4.0.0 (Dakar), 01"> TWiki Release 4.0.0 (Dakar), 01 Feb 2006</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-Sep-2004 Release (Cairo)"> 01-Sep-2004 Release (Cairo)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-Feb-2003 Release (Beijing)"> 01-Feb-2003 Release (Beijing)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-Dec-2001 Release (Athens)"> 01-Dec-2001 Release (Athens)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-Sep-2001 Release"> 01-Sep-2001 Release</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-Dec-2000 Release"> 01-Dec-2000 Release</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-May-2000 Release"> 01-May-2000 Release</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-Sep-1999 Release"> 01-Sep-1999 Release</a></li>
        <li><a href="#01-Jul-1999 Release"> 01-Jul-1999 Release</a></li>
        <li><a href="#1998 Releases"> 1998 Releases</a></li>
        <li><a href="#Dev Flow"> Dev Flow</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

<a name="FreetownRelease"></a>

## <a name="TWiki Release 4.2.4 (Georgeown)"></a><a name="TWiki Release 4.2.4 (Georgeown) "></a> TWiki Release 4.2.4 (Georgeown) released 00:35:32 06 December 2008

Patch release following the 4.2.0 released 22 Jan 2008

**_New Features and Enhancements of TWiki Release 4.2_**

- **Easier Installation and Upgrade**
  - New Internal Admin Login feature
  - The Main.TWikiUsers topic is no longer distributed as a default topic in Main web
  - A new directory `working` which per default is located in the TWiki root which contains registration\_approvals, tmp, and work\_areas
  - Configure can now authenticate when connecting to local plugins repository.

- **Usability Enhancements**
  - New WYSIWYG editor based on TinyMCE replaces the Kupu based editor
  - New "Restore topic" feature has been added to the _More Topic Actions_ menu to easily restore an older version of a topic

- **Application Platform Enhancements**
  - Enhancements to IF: allows, ingroup, istopic, and isweb

- **Search Enhancements**
  - New `query` search mode supports SQL-style queries over form fields and other meta-data

- **Skins and Templates Enhancements**
  - The PatternSkin which is the default skin for TWiki has got a face lift
  - The default templates have been heavily refactored to make it easier to create skins reusing the default skin.

- **Miscellaneous Feature Enhancements**
  - Many new functions in the API for plugin developers
  - Table of Content (TOC) feature enhanced
  - re-architected Pluggable user mapping (between login name and WikiName) to integrate with alternative authentication and Management schemes
  - Topic based User management has been extracted into a separately update-able package (TWikiUsersContrib)

- **Enhancements of Pre-installed Plugins**
  - [[CommentPlugin]]: New `templatetopic` parameter to point to custom comment template topic
  - [[EditTablePlugin]]: Move and delete rows
  - [[MailerContrib]]: Allow Exclusion Of Webs
  - [[SpreadSheetPlugin]]: 6 new math formulas; formula to format time diff

- **Bug Fixes**
  - More than 300 bugs fixes since 4.1.2

<a name="FreetownHallOfFame"></a> **_Hall of Fame of TWiki Release 4.2_**

Many people have been involved in creating TWiki 4.2. Special thanks go to the most active contributors in the following areas:

- Release management led by TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen, ably assisted by TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit
- Design and development driven by TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen and TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit
- Testing driven by TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen

Many thanks also to the contributors in the following areas:

- **Sponsor and facilitator:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
- **Testing and bug fixing:** TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit, TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen, TWiki:Main.MichaelDaum, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin
- **Spec and code:** TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie (2323), TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens (566), TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit (507), TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny (83), TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen (73), TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen (72), TWiki:Main.AntonioTerceiro (63) - ( 3857 changes by 20 authors )
- **Templates and skins:** TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens (587), TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie (130), TWiki:Main.AndreUlrich (73), TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit (44) - ( 869 changes by 12 authors )
- **Documentation:** TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens (460), TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie (377), TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny (233), TWiki:Main.AndreUlrich (157), TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit (118), TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen (68) - ( 1450 changes by 14 authors )
- **Release package builds:** TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit
- **Usability:** TWiki:Main.CarloSchulz, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens
- **Translations:** Coordinated by TWiki:Main.AntonioTerceiro
  - Bulgarian: TWiki:Main.KrassimirBerov
  - Danish: TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen
  - Dutch: TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens
  - Finnish: TWiki:Main.HeikkiToivonen
  - French: TWiki:Main.BenVoui
  - German: TWiki:Main.OliverKrueger, TWiki:Main.AndreUlrich
  - Italian: TWiki:Main.MassimoMancini
  - Portuguese: TWiki:Main.CarlinhosCecconi
  - Simplified Chinese: TWiki:Main.CheDong
  - Swedish: TWiki:Main.ErikAman
  - Traditional Chinese: TWiki:Main.CheDong
  - Ukrainian: TWiki:Main.SerhijDubyk
- **Marketing:** TWiki:Main.RodBeckstrom, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.MichaelCorbett, TWiki:Main.KoenMartens
- **Public relations:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.MichaelCorbett
- **Meetups:** TWiki:Main.AmirShobeiri
- **TWiki.org wiki champions:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen, TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit, TWiki:Main.MichaelDaum, TWiki:Main.CarloSchulz, TWiki:Main.StephaneLenclud, TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin, TWiki:Main.KoenMartens
- **Customer support:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit, TWiki:Main.HaraldJoerg
- **System administration:** TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie

If you find an omission please fix it at TWiki:TWiki.TWikiHistory. For the full list of contributors see [[TWikiContributor]].

**_Note:_** Order of contributors under "Spec and code", "Templates and skins" and "Documentation" is based on number of SVN file changes for core and default extensions from March 2007 (svn rev:13046) to Jan 2008 (svn rev:16210). (Details at TWikibug:TWiki420SvnLog). Order of contributors under "Testing and bug fixing" is based on Bugs web statistics from 2007-03 to 2007-12. Order of contributors under "TWiki.org wiki champions" and "Customer support" is based on TWiki.org web statistics from 2007-02 to 2007-12.

See more details on the TWiki 4.2 release at [[TWikiReleaseNotes04x02]].

<a name="EdinburghRelease"></a>

## <a name="TWiki Release 4.1 (Edinburgh), 1"></a> TWiki Release 4.1 (Edinburgh), 16 Jan 2007

**_New Features and Enhancements of TWiki Release 4.1_**

- **Easier Installation and Upgrade**
  - Plugins can now be installed from the configure script.
  - The loading of plugin preferences settings has been moved earlier in the preferences evaluation order so that plugin settings can be redefined in [[Main.TWikiPreferences|Main/TWikiPreferences]], WebPreferences and in topics. To make TWiki upgrades easier, it is recommended to set the plugin settings in Main.TWikiPreferences, and not to customize the settings in the plugin topic. For example, to change the TEMPLATES setting of the [[CommentPlugin]], create a new COMMENTPLUGIN\_TEMPLATES setting in Main.TWikiPreferences.
  - Plugin settings can now be defined in configure instead of in the plugin topic (requires that the individual plugin has implemented this). TWiki performs slightly better by not looking for preferences settings in plugin topics.
  - Configure no longer shows many unnecessary errors when run first time.
  - The webmaster email address is now defined in configure instead of TWikiPreferences.
  - Default file access rights in the distribution package have been changed to be more universally defined and in line with the default access rights for new topics.

- **Usability Enhancements**
  - Redesigned result page when typing incomplete topic name into the Jump box, so that it is possible to quickly navigate to a topic, also in a very large TWiki installation. For example, "I know there is a topic about Ajax somewhere in the Eng web. OK, let my type `Eng.ajax` into the Jump box... Here we go, the third link is the AjaxCookbook I was looking for."
  - Many user documentation improvements.
  - URL parameters maintained in Table of Contents links so you can stay in a temporary skin (e.g. print) and keep URLPARAM values when you click the TOC links
  - Attachment tables now sorted alphabetically.
  - Better printing of tables and verbatim text in [[PatternSkin]].

- **Application Platform Enhancements**
  - Auto-incremented topic name on save with AUTOINC&lt;n&gt; in topic name; used by TWiki applications to create topic based database records.
  - The edit and save scripts support a `redirectto` parameter to redirect to a topic or a URL; for security, redirect to URL needs to be enabled with a `{AllowRedirectUrl}` configure flag.
  - [[CommentPlugin]] supports the `redirectto` parameter to redirect to a URL or link to TWiki topic after submitting comment.
  - The `topic` URL parameter also respects the `{AllowRedirectUrl}` configure flag so redirects to URLs can be disabled which could be abused for phishing attacks.
  - The view script supports a `section` URL parameter to view just a named section within a topic. Useful for simple AJAX type applications.
  - New plugin handler for content move.
  - Enhancements for Ajax based applications with TWiki:Plugins/YahooUserInterfaceContrib and TWiki:Plugins.TWikiAjaxContrib (available at twiki.org).

- **Search Enhancements**
  - METASEARCH handles a format parameter like SEARCH.
  - Topic not found / [[WebTopicViewTemplate]] search now case insensitive.
  - [[FormattedSearch]] header supporting `$nop`, `$quot`, `$percnt`, `$dollar`.
  - Add search by createdate option to SEARCH.
  - New newline option for SEARCH to protect e.g. formfields from being altered during rendering in SEARCH.

- **Skins and Templates Enhancements**
  - Support for templates to have text rendering affecting aspect outside of textarea.
  - Pattern skin dependence on [[TwistyPlugin]] instead of [[TwistyContrib]] (performance improvement.)
  - Don't strip newlines from the front of TMPL:DEFs.

- **Miscellaneous Feature Enhancements**
  - Change in [[WikiWord]] definition: Numbers are treated as lower case letters, e.g. Y2K is now a WikiWord.
  - Configurable template load path. Advanced feature for those that work with customized templates.
  - Added %VBAR% to [[TWikiPreferences]] for vertical bar symbol.
  - On topic creation, force initial letter of topic name to be upper case.
  - Allow date format in form fields.
  - Enhance REVINFO\{\} variable with same date qualifiers as GMTIME\{\}.
  - [[WebTopicCreator]] - adding ability to select a template from any topic name ending in ...Template
  - Functionality of TWiki:Plugins.DateFieldPlugin merged into core

- **Enhancements of Pre-installed Plugins**
  - [[CommentPlugin]]: Supports removal of comment prompt after a comment is made.
  - [[EditTablePlugin]]: Default date format based on [[JSCalendarContrib]] instead of plugin topic.
  - [[InterwikiPlugin]]: Supports custom link formats.
  - [[SlideShowPlugin]]: Preserves URL parameters in slideshow
  - [[SpreadSheetPlugin]]: New functions `$LISTRAND()`, `$LISTSHUFFLE()`, `$LISTTRUNCATE()`.
  - [[TablePlugin]]: New attribute `cellborder`.
  - [[TablePlugin]]: Highlight the sorted column with custom colors; includes also a general cosmetic update of default colors.
  - [[TablePlugin]]: Support for initsort on more than one table. A table with the initsort option is initsorted UNLESS it is sorted by clicking on a column header. If you click on a header of another table all other tables goes back to the default sort defined by initsort or not sorted if no initsort, and the new table is sorted based on the user clicking on a table header.

- **Bugfixes**
  - More than 200 bugs fixed since 4.0.5

<a name="EdinburghHallOfFame"></a> **_Hall of Fame of TWiki Release 4.1_**

Although many more people have been involved in creating TWiki-4.1, special thanks go to the most active contributors in the following areas:

- **Sponsor and facilitator:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
- **Process improvement:** TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie
- **Release management:** TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen
- **Spec, code, testing:** TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.ThomasWeigert, TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen, TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit, TWiki:Main.HaraldJoerg, TWiki:Main.MichaelDaum, TWiki:Main.MeredithLesly, TWiki:Main.WillNorris, TWiki:Main.RafaelAlvarez, TWiki:Main.AntonioTerceiro
- **Templates and skins:** TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.MichaelDaum, TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit
- **Documentation:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen, TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen
- **Translations:** Coordinated by TWiki:Main.AntonioTerceiro
  - Chinese: TWiki:Main.CheDong
  - Czech: TWiki:Main.IvanKuncl
  - Danish: TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen
  - Dutch: TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens
  - French: TWiki:Main.BenVoui
  - German: TWiki:Main.AndreUlrich
  - Italian: TWiki:Main.MassimoMancini
  - Polish: TWiki:Main.ZbigniewKulesza
  - Portuguese: TWiki:Main.AntonioTerceiro, TWiki:Main.CarlinhosCecconi
  - Russian: TWiki:Main.AndreyTkachenko, TWiki:Main.SergejZnamenskij, TWiki:Main.SergeyJSinx, TWiki:Main.AlexTananaev
  - Spanish: TWiki:Main.WillNorris, TWiki:Main.MiguelABayona
  - Swedish: TWiki:Main.ErikAman
- **Public relations:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.TomTansy
- **TWiki.org wiki champions:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.KennethLavrsen, TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.ThomasWeigert, TWiki:Main.MichaelDaum
- **Customer support:** TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie, TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens, TWiki:Main.SteffenPoulsen, TWiki:Main.SteveStark, TWiki:Main.MichaelDaum
- **System administration:** TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie

If you find an omission please fix it at TWiki:TWiki.TWikiHistory. For the full list of contributors see [[TWikiContributor]].

**_Note:_** Sequence of contributors under "Spec, code, testing", "Templates and skins" and "Documentation" is based on number of SVN check-ins for core and default extensions from 2006-02 to 2006-12. Sequence of contributors under "TWiki.org wiki champions" and "Customer support" is based on TWiki.org web statistics from 2006-02 to 2006-12.

See more details on the TWiki 4.1 release at [[TWikiReleaseNotes04x01]].

<a name="DakarRelease"></a>

## <a name="TWiki Release 4.0.0 (Dakar), 01"></a><a name="TWiki Release 4.0.0 (Dakar), 01 "></a> TWiki Release 4.0.0 (Dakar), 01 Feb 2006

**_Major New Features_**

- Much simpler install and configuration
- Integrated session support
- Webserver-independent login/logout
- Security sandbox blocking exploits for remote command execution on the server
- Edit conflict resolution with automatic merge
- Multilingual UI
- E-mail confirmations for registration
- WYSIWYG editor (beta)
- Hierarchical sub-webs (beta)

Many, many people worked on TWiki-4.0.0. The credits in the table below only list the people who worked on individual enhancements. If you find an omission please fix it at TWiki:TWiki.%TOPIC%. There were many other contributors; for a full list, visit [[TWikiContributor]].

Most of the redesign, refactoring and new documentation work in Dakar release was done by [Crawford Currie](http://c-dot.co.uk). [Michael Sparks](http://kamaelia.org/Michael.html) provided ideas and proof of concept for several improvements. Other people who gave _large_ amounts of their time and patience to less sexy aspects of the work, such as testing, infrastructure and documentation, are [[AntonAylward]], [[KennethLavrsen]], [[LynnwoodBrown]], [[MichaelDaum]], [Peter Thoeny](http://www.structuredwikis.com/), [[SteffenPoulsen]], [Sven Dowideit](http://www.home.org.au), [[WillNorris]].

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="border-width: 1px">
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> Installation &amp; configuration </strong> </font></span></th>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> Contributor </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Much simpler install and configuration </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, [[TWiki:Main/LynnwoodBrown]], [[TWiki:Main/ArthurClemens]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><code>mod_perl</code> safe code for better performance </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" colspan="2" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> Security </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Security sandbox blocking exploits for remote command execution on the server </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://www.enyo.de/fw/" target="_top">Florian Weimer</a>, <a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, <a href="http://www.home.org.au" target="_top">Sven Dowideit</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Reworked access permission model </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" colspan="2" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> Internationalization &amp; localization </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/UserInterfaceInternationalisation]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/AntonioTerceiro]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Chinese translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/CheDong]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Danish translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/SteffenPoulsen]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Dutch translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ArthurClemens]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> French translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/BenVoui]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> German translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/AndreUlrich]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Italian translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/MassimoMancini]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Polish translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ZbigniewKulesza]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Portuguese translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/AntonioTerceiro]], [[TWiki:Main/CarlinhosCecconi]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Spanish translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/WillNorris]], [[TWiki:Main/MiguelABayona]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Swedish translation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ErikAman]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" colspan="2" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> New features for users </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Edit conflict resolution with automatic merge </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Fine grained change notification on page level and parent/child relationship </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> WYSIWYG editor </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, [[TWiki:Main/ColasNahaboo]], [[TWiki:Main/DamienMandrioli]], [[TWiki:Main/RomainRaugi]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Integrated session support </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/GregAbbas]], <a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Webserver-independent login/logout </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/RegisterCgiScriptRewrite]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/MartinCleaver]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/TipOfTheDayFeatureRequest]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/PaulineCheung]], <a href="http://www.structuredwikis.com/" target="_top">Peter Thoeny</a>, [[TWiki:Main/AntonAylward]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[Main/WebAtomBase]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://www.structuredwikis.com/" target="_top">Peter Thoeny</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/ForceNewRevisionCheckBox]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/WillNorris]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" colspan="2" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> New features for TWiki administrators and wiki application developers </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Improved preferences handling </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ThomasWeigert]], <a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Named include sections </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/RafaelAlvarez]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/AllowDynamicTopicNameCreation]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://www.home.org.au" target="_top">Sven Dowideit</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/ParameterizedIncludes]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/DynamicFormOptionDefinitions]] of [[Main/TWikiForms]] with [[Main/FormattedSearch]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/MartinCleaver]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> SEARCH enhancements with new parameters <code>excludeweb</code>, <code>newline</code>, <code>noempty</code>, <code>nofinalnewline</code>, <code>nonoise</code>, <code>recurse</code>, <code>zeroresults</code></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, [[TWiki:Main/ArthurClemens]], <a href="http://www.structuredwikis.com/" target="_top">Peter Thoeny</a>, [[TWiki:Main/ThomasWeigert]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[Main/FormattedSearch]] enhancements with <code>$changes</code>, <code>$count</code>, <code>$formfield(name, 30, ...)</code>, <code>$summary(expandvar)</code>, <code>$summary(noheaders)</code>, <code>$summary(showvarnames)</code></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ColasNahaboo]], <a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, <a href="http://www.structuredwikis.com/" target="_top">Peter Thoeny</a>, <a href="http://www.home.org.au" target="_top">Sven Dowideit</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> New [[Main/TWikiVariables]] [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarACTIVATEDPLUGINS]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarALLVARIABLES]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarAUTHREALM]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarEMAILS]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarFAILEDPLUGINS]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarHTTP]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarHTTPS]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarICONURL]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarICONURLPATH]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarIF]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarLANGUAGES]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarLOCALSITEPREFS]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarLOGIN]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarLOGOUT]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarMAKETEXT]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarMETA]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarPLUGINDESCRIPTIONS]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarQUERYSTRING]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarSTARTSECTION]]/[[Main/TWikiVariables#VarENDSECTION]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarSESSION_VARIABLE]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarSESSIONID]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarSESSIONVAR]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarSPACEOUT]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarUSERLANGUAGE]], [[Main/TWikiVariables#VarWIKIHOMEURL]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ArthurClemens]], [[TWiki:Main/AntonioTerceiro]], <a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, [[TWiki:Main/GregAbbas]], [[TWiki:Main/PeterThoeny]], <a href="http://www.home.org.au" target="_top">Sven Dowideit</a>, [[TWiki:Main/WillNorris]] and many more </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/TWikiFormWithHiddenType]] and other form enhancements </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/LynnwoodBrown]], [[TWiki:Main/ThomasWeigert]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/SupportTopicSpecificTemplates]] for TWiki applications </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ThomasWeigert]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Direct save feature for one-click template-based topic creation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/LynnwoodBrown]], <a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, [[TWiki:Main/ThomasWeigert]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Codev/AutomaticAttachments]] showing all files in the attachment directory </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/MartinCleaver]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Rename, move or delete webs </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/PeterNixon]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Hierarchical subwebs (beta) </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/PeterNixon]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" colspan="2" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> New features for Plugin developers </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> REST (representational state transfer) interface for Plugins </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/RafaelAlvarez]], [[TWiki:Main/MartinCleaver]], <a href="http://www.home.org.au" target="_top">Sven Dowideit</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> New and improved Plugins APIs </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, [[TWiki:Main/ThomasWeigert]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" colspan="2" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> Improvements in the TWiki engine room </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Major OO redesign and refactoring of codebase </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Automatic build system </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Extensive test suite, unit tests and testcases </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> TWiki:Codev.DevelopBranch , <a href="http://develop.twiki.org/~develop/cgi-bin/view/Bugs" target="_top">DEVELOP branch Bugs system</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""><a href="http://www.home.org.au" target="_top">Sven Dowideit</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th align="left" bgcolor="#6b7f93" colspan="2" maxcols="0" style="text-align: left"><span><font color="#ffffff"> <strong> Documentation, logo artwork, skins: </strong> </font></span></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Documentation </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""><a href="http://c-dot.co.uk" target="_top">Crawford Currie</a>, [[TWiki:Main/LynnwoodBrown]], <a href="http://www.structuredwikis.com/" target="_top">Peter Thoeny</a>, <a href="http://www.home.org.au" target="_top">Sven Dowideit</a> and others </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style=""> Design of [[Main/TWikiLogos]] with big "T" in a speech bubble </td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ArthurClemens]], [[TWiki:Main/PeterThoeny]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style=""> Improved templates and [[Main/PatternSkin]]</td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="">[[TWiki:Main/ArthurClemens]]</td>
  </tr>
</table>

See more details at [[TWikiReleaseNotes04x00]]

<a name="CairoRelease"></a>

## <a name="01-Sep-2004 Release (Cairo)"></a> 01-Sep-2004 Release (Cairo)

**_Major New Features_**

- Automatic upgrade script, and easier first-time installation
- Attractive new skins, using a standard set of CSS classes, and a skin browser to help you choose
- New easier-to-use save options
- Many improvements to SEARCH
- Improved support for internationalisation
- Better topic management screens
- More pre-installed Plugins: [[CommentPlugin]], [[EditTablePlugin]], [[RenderListPlugin]], [[SlideShowPlugin]], [[SmiliesPlugin]], [[SpreadSheetPlugin]], [[TablePlugin]]
- Improved Plugins API and more Plugin callbacks
- Better support for different authentication methods
- Many user interface and usability improvements
- And many, many more enhancements

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="border-width: 1px">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#6b7f93" maxcols="0" style="width: 90%" width="90%"><a href="http://localhost?sortcol=0;table=2;up=0#sorted_table" rel="nofollow" title="Sort by this column"><font color="#ffffff">Details of New Features and Enhancements of 01-Sep-2004 Release</font></a></th>
    <th bgcolor="#6b7f93" maxcols="0" style="width: 10%" width="10%"><a href="http://localhost?sortcol=1;table=2;up=0#sorted_table" rel="nofollow" title="Sort by this column"><font color="#ffffff">Developer, Sponsor</font></a></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Install: Ship with an automatic upgrade script to facilitate TWiki upgrades. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/CairoReleaseUpgradeGuide" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MartinGregory TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Install: New testenv function to change the locks in the TWiki database to the web server user id (automates installation step). <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RelockingRCSFiles" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MattWilkie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Install: The shipped .htaccess.txt now needs to be edited before it is valid, to help reduce chances of error. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/InconsistentExtractDirectory" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Install: Configurable password file handling for different types of encryption. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ConfigurablePasswordFileHandling" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PavelGoran TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Install: Remove office locations from registration. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RemoveOfficeFromRegistration" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Install: Changes to support shorter URLs with Apache Rewrite rules. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ShorterURLs" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.AntonioBellezza TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Install: Remove the Know web from the distribution. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/StopDistributingKnowWeb" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Internationalization: Support use of UTF-8 URLs for I18N characters in TWiki page and attachment names. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/EncodeURLsWithUTF8" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Authentication: Authenticate users when creating new topic in view restricted web. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/VariousAuthBugsFixed" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.JonathanGraehl TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Preferences: TWiki Preferences need to be secured properly. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SecureTWikiPreferences" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Preferences: Use TWiki Forms to set user preferences. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UsingFormsForSettings" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skins: New pre-installed skins PatternSkin and DragonSkin. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SkinsForCairoRelease" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skins: New skin browser to choose from installed skins. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiSkinBrowser" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skins: Documented set of CSS classes that are used in standard skins. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/CssClassNames" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skins: Added CSS class names to Diff output. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/HardwiredRDiffColours" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skins: Templates can now be read from user topics, as well as from files in the templates diretcory. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ReadTemplatesFromUserTopics" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skins: Ensure that the default template gets overridden by a template passed in. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PassedInTopicTemplateOverridesDefault" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MartinCleaver TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skin: Convey an important broadcast message to all users, e.g. scheduled server downtime. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BroadcastMessageHandling" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Skin: Balanced pastel colors for TWiki webs. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiWebColors" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: Use exclamation point prefix to escape TWiki markup rendering. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/EasierNop" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: Ordered lists with uppercase &amp; lowercase letters, uppercase &amp; lowercase Roman numerals. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ImprovedOutlines" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.DanBoitnott TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: Allow custom styles for the "?" of uncreated topics. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/NewTopicLinkStylePatch" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: Render IRC and NNTP as a URL. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RenderIrcAsURL" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: Make acronym linking more strict by requiring a trailing boundary, e.g. excluding TLAfoobar. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TLAbehaviourIsOdd" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: TWiki Form with Label type. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiFormWithLabelType" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: Web names can now be WikiWords. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/WebNameAsWikiName" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: New syntax for definition list with dollar sign and colon. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/WikiSyntaxForDefinitionLists" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.AdamTheo TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Rendering: Table with multi-span rows, functionality provided by Table Plugin. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/WikiTablesNeedRowspanning" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: New title parameter for TOC variable. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/AddHeadingToToc" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: New REVINFO variable in templates supports flexible display of revision information. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/AddRevisionVariablesToTemplate" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: Set times to be displayed as gmtime or servertime. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/AlwaysServerTimeZone" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SueBlake TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: Properly encode parameters for form fields with ENCODE variable. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/EncodeParamsForFormFields" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: Expand USERNAME and WIKINAME in Template Topics. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ExpandUsernameAndWikinameInTemplateTopics" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: Expand same variables in new user template as in template topics. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ExpandVariablesInNewUserTemplate" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: Optionally warn when included topic does not exist; with the option to create the included topic. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FailedIncludeWarning" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: In topic text show file-types of attached files as icons. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FileAttachmentIconVariable" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: New variable FORMFIELD returns the value of a field in the form attached to a topic.. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormattedTWikiFormDataInTopicText" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.DavidSachitano TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: Meta data rendering for form fields with META{"formfield"}. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MetaDataRendering" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: New PLUGINVERSION variable. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PluginVersionVariable" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: URLPARAM now has a <code>default="..."</code> argument, for when no value has been given. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UrlParamWithDefaultValue" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: URLPARAM variable with newline parameter. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UrlParamWithNewlineArg" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Variables: URLPARAM variable with new multiple=on parameter. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UrlParamWithSelectMultiple" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PaulineCheung TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: New switch for search to perform an AND NOT search. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/InvertedSearchFeature" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Keyword search to search with implicit AND. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/KeywordSearchWithImplicitAnd" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Multiple searches in same topic with new multiple="on" paramter. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MultipleSearchesInSameTopic" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Remove limitation on number of topics to search in a web. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ArgumentListIsTooLongForSearch" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Exclude topics from search with an excludetopic parameter. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ExcludeWebTopicsFromSearch" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Expand Variables on Formatted Search with expandvariables Flag. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ExpandVariablesOnFormattedSearch" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Formatted Search with Web Form variable to retrieve the name of the form attached to a topic. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormattedSearchFormnameVariable" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.FrankSmith TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Formatted Search with Conditional Output. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormattedSearchWithConditionalOutput" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Formatted Search with $parent token to get the parent topic. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormattedSearchWithParentTopic" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: New separator parameter to SEARCH supports better SEARCH embedding. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormattedSearchWithSeparatorParameter" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Improved search performance when sorting result by topic name. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SchwartzianTransformMisused" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: New <code>scope=all</code> search parameter to search in topic name and topic text at the same time. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SearchScopeForTopicAndText" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: New <code>topic</code> parameter for AND search on topic text and topic name. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SearchTopicNameAndTopicText" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search modules uses Perl-style keyword parameters (code cleanup). <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SearchWebHasTooManyParameters" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: New $wikiname variable in format parameter of formatted search. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ShortUserNameInFormattedSearch" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Sort search by topic creation date. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SortSearchByTopicCreateDate" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Topic creation date and user in Formatted Search. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TopicCreateDateInFormattedSearch" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CoreyFruitman TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Search: Increase levels of nested search from 2 to 16. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MoreNestedSearchLevels" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New pre-installed Plugins CommentPlugin, EditTablePlugin, RenderListPlugin, SlideShowPlugin, SmiliesPlugin, SpreadSheetPlugin, TablePlugin. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PreinstalledTWikiPlugins" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New callback <code>afterSaveHandler</code>, called after a topic is saved. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/AfterSavePluginHandler" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New callbacks <code>beforeAttachmentSaveHandler</code> and <code>afterAttachmentSaveHandler</code>, used to intervene on attachment save event. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BeforeAttachmentSaveHandler" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MartinCleaver TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New callbacks <code>beforeCommonTagsHandler</code> and <code>afterCommonTagsHandler</code>. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BeforeCommonTagsHandler" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New callback <code>renderFormFieldForEditHandler</code> to render form field for edit. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RenderFormFieldForEditHandler" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New callback <code>renderWikiWordHandler</code> to custom render links. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RenderedWikiWordHandler" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MartinCleaver TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New function <code>TWiki::Func::formatTime</code> to format time into a string. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormatTime" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New function <code>TWiki::Func::getRegularExpression</code> to get predefined regular expressions. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/GetRegularExpression" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New functions <code>TWiki::Func::getPluginPreferences*</code> to get Plugin preferences. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/GetPluginPreferences" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New function <code>TWiki::Func::extractParameters</code> to extract all parameters from a variable string. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ExtractParameters" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: New function <code>TWiki::Func::checkDependencies</code> to check for module dependency. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PluginDependencies" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Plugins: A recommendation for where a Plugin can store its data. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RecommendedStorageOfPluginData" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Show tool-tip topic info on [[Main/WikiWord]] links. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ToolTipTopicInfoOnWikiWordLinks" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Save topic and continue edit feature. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/CheckpointSave" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ColasNahaboo </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Change topic with direct save (without edit/preview/save cycle) and checkpoint save. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SavemultiCgiScript" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MattWilkie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: In attachment table, change 'action' to 'manage'. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/AttachmentActionLinkBadName" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Smaller usability enhancements on the file attachment table. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BetterAttachmentTableForCairoRelease" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Removes anchor links from header content and places them before the text to fix 'header becomes link'. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BetterLinksToHeadings" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Improved functionality of the More screen. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BetterMoreRealizedFeatures" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Quick reference chart of most used markup is now listed on the edit screen. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/HelpTextInEditPage" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Flag for edit script to avoid overwrite of existing topic text and form data. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FlagForEditScriptToAvoidFormDataOverwrite" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.NielsKoldso TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Disable Escape key in IE textarea to prevent it cancelling work. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/EscKeyInEditorDeletesText" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Improved warning message on unsaved topic. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ReassurePeopleTheyDidntLoseTheirData" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MartinGregory TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Reverse order of words in page title for better multi-window/tab navigation. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ReversePageTitle" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Provides a framework to create and modify a topic without going through edit-&gt;preview-&gt;save sequence. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SaveContentWithoutEdit" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.AndreUlrich TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Set the topic parent to none in More screen, e.g. remove the current topic parent. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SettingParentTopicToNone" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Use templates to define how file attachments are displayed. Was previously hard-coded. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TemplatesForMetaDataPresentation" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Topic diff shows unified diff with unchanged context. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UnifiedDiffOutput" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> UI: Diff feature shows TWiki form changes in nice tables. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiFormsDiffRendering" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: The log entry for a save now has a dontNotify flag in the extra field if the user checked the minor changes flag. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/DontNotifyFlagInLogFile" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Server-side include of attachments accelerates INCLUDE. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/IncludeAttachment" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Move functionality out of bin scripts and into included modules. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MoreChangesToUpload" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Move bin script functionality into TWiki::UI modules. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MoveScriptFunctionalityIntoTWikiUiLibs" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Optimize preferences handling for better performance. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/OptimizePreferencesHandling" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PavelGoran TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Refactor variable expansion for edit and register. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RefactorVariableExpansion" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Move savemulti script into TWiki::UI::Save. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SavemultiIntoSaveDotPm" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MattWilkie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Topic search is done natively in Perl, it does not depend anymore on system calls with pipes. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SearchWithNoPipe" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Code refactoring: Fix logical error in upload script which prevented MIME filename from being used. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UploadFilenameFixToEnableBatchUploadWithCurl" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="border-width: 1px">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#6b7f93" maxcols="0" style="width: 90%" width="90%"><a href="http://localhost?sortcol=0;table=3;up=0#sorted_table" rel="nofollow" title="Sort by this column"><font color="#ffffff">Bug Fixes of 01-Sep-2004 Release</font></a></th>
    <th bgcolor="#6b7f93" maxcols="0" style="width: 10%" width="10%"><a href="http://localhost?sortcol=1;table=3;up=0#sorted_table" rel="nofollow" title="Sort by this column"><font color="#ffffff">Developer, Sponsor</font></a></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Consistently create headings with empty anchor tags. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/AllcapsHeadingsProduceBrokenAnchors" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: TOC does not work for headings containing &amp; without spaces surrounding it. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/AmpersandHeadingBadTOCLink" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Backslash line break breaks TWiki form definitions. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BackslashBreaksForm" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Rename fixes unrelated topic references. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BugInTopicRenaming" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Bug with infinite recursion in search. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/BugInfiniteRecursionInSearch" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Can't send mail with full 'From' address. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/CantSendMailWithFullAddress" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: All scripts change to $bin before execute (for mod_perl2). <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ChangeToScriptDirForModPerl" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Several RSS readers do not show all entries seen in the WebChanges list; repeated updates to the same topics get lost. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ChangesDontShowUpInRSS" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: TWiki::Access::checkAccessPermission function improperly handles Main and TWiki webs. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/CheckAccessPermissionBrokenForMainAndTWikiWebs" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Topic save returns error CI Date precedes date in revision. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/CiDatePrecedesDateInRevision" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Double quotes got replaced by " in TWiki forms. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/DoubleQuoteHandlingInTwikiForms" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MichaelSparks TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Duplicated Wiki name in .htpasswd entry for sha1 encoding. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/DuplicatedWikiNameInHtpasswdEntry" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: When viewing a previous version of a topic, the view script substitutes only one occurrence of the variable EDITTOPIC. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/EditTopicNotGloballySubstituted" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Form default values are not working for text fields. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormDefaultNotWorkingForTextField" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ThomasWeigert TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Formatted searches using a $pattern which unbalanced parenthesis crash TWiki. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormattedSearchPatternExtractionUnmatchedParenthesesError" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Formatted Search uses title but should use name for formfield parameter. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/FormattedSearchUsesTitleInsteadOfName" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: GMTIME variable returns unwanted GMT text. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/GmTimeVariableReturnsUnwantedGMT" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Include from other Web links ACRONYMS. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/IncludeFromOtherWebLinksACRONYMS" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Including an HTML file is very slow. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/IncludeHTMLTakesLongTime" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: includeUrl() mess up absolute URLs. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/IncludeUrlScrewsUpAbsoluteUrls" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Filter out fixed font rendering in TOC to avoid unrendered = equal signs in TOC. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/IncorrectWhitespaceParsingInTOC" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: The initializeUserHandler is broken for session Plugins. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/InitializeUserHandlerBroken" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: SEARCH fails with very large webs. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/InlineSearchArgListTooLong" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Security alert: User could gain view access rights of another user. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/InsecureViewWithFailedAuthentication" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.KimCovil TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: 'print to closed file handle' error of log files are not writable. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/LogAndWarningFilePermissionsGiveBadErrorMessage" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MartinGregory TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Meta data handler can't process CR-LF line endings. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MetaDataHandlerCantProcessCrLfLineEndings" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: METAFIELD meta data is not shown in view raw=on mode. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MetaFieldNotShownInViewRawMode" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Minor XHTML non-compliance in templates and code. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/MinorXHTMLNonComplianceInTemplates" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Getting pages from virtual hosts fails. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/NetCantGetURLFromVhosts" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Create new web fails if RCS files do not exist. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/NewWebFailsIfTemplateRCSIsDeleted" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ClausBrunzema TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Metacharacters can be passed through to the shell in File Attach. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/NoShellCharacterEscapingInFileAttachComment" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Ability to delete non-WikiWord topics without confirmation. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/NonWikiWordInConfirm" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: + symbol in password reset fails. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/OopsResetPasswdFormat" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Pathinfo cleanup for hosted sites. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PathInfoCleanupBug" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MikeSalisbury TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Software error in SEARCH if regular expression pattern has unmached parenthesis. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PatternExtractBug" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Pipe chars in the comment field of the attachment table are not escaped. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PipeInCommentInAttachmentTableNotEscaped" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Link escaping in preview fails for not quoted hrefs. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PreviewDoesNoQuoteHrefs" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.TedPavlic TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Preview expands variables twice. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/PreviewExpandsVariablesTwice" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Using a proxy with TWiki fails; no proxy-HTTP request, minimal request not HTTP 1.0, requests marked 1.1 are at best 1.0. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/ProxiedIncludesBrokenImplementationBug" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MichaelSparks TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Runaway view processes with TWiki::Sore::RcsLite. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RcsLiteRunawayViewProcesses" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Regex Error in WebTopicList with topics that have meta characters in the name. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RegexErrorWithTopicNamesWithMetaChars" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Rename script misses some ref-by topics. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RenameScriptMissesSomeReferrers" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Links to self within the page being renamed are not changed. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RenameSkipsSelf" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Rename topic does 'Main.Main.UserName' for attachments. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RenameTopicDoesMainMainUser" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Revision date is set to Jan 1970 when using RCS Lite. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/RevisionDateJan1970" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: The new dynamically-created SiteMap is very nice, but somewhat slow. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SiteMapIsSlow" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: The makeAnchorName function did not produce the same results if called iteratively, resulting in problems trying to link to headers.. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SpecificLinkIncorrectlyRemovesAnchorUnderscores" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.WalterMundt </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Statistics page does not provide links to non-wikiword topics. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/StatisticsDoesNotLinkNonWikiWordTopics" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Make TOC link URI references relative. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TOCLinkURIRefsNotRelative" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.MartinGregory TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: TWiki hangs when used on Apache 2.0. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiOnApache2dot0Hangs" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: TOC incorrectly strips out links in headers. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TocMishandlesStrippingLinks" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: The HTML tags that are generated by TOC do not close properly. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TocNotClosedProperly" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: TOC on INCLUDEd topic ignores STOPINCLUDE. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TocWithParameterIgnoresStopinclude" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.WillNorris TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Quotes in tooltip message can break a TWiki form. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TooltipCanBreakForm" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Better error message if the file attachment directory is not writable. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UninitializedValueInRcsFile" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.CrawfordCurrie TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Image size of PNG files. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UploadDoesNotGenerateImageSizeOfPngs" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.ArthurClemens </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: The testenv script distinguishes between real user ID and effective user ID. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UseEffectiveUIDInTestenv" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Variables in square bracket links dont work in form fields. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/VariableInSquareBracketLinkDoestWorkInFormField" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Variable with Parameters in Form Fields Disappear. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/VariableWithParamsInFormFieldsDisappear" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Verbatim tag should escape HTML entities. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/VerbatimShouldEscapeHtmlEntities" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Field names of TWiki Forms can be WikiWords, this is used to link to a help topic. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/WebDotTopicFormFieldNamesDontWork" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Clean up the WebRssBase INCLUDES to use VARIABLES set in TWikiPreferences. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/WebRssBaseDcFieldsWrong" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ffffff" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 90%" width="90%"> Fix: Resolving variables in included topics. <a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/WrongInternalTagOrder" target="_top">Details</a></td>
    <td bgcolor="#ecf2f8" style="width: 10%" width="10%"> TWiki:Main.OliverKrueger TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<a name="BeijingRelease"></a>

## <a name="01-Feb-2003 Release (Beijing)"></a> 01-Feb-2003 Release (Beijing)

- **18 Jan 2003** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Support for `/bin/view/Web.TopicName` topic view URL (besides the default `/bin/view/Web/TopicName` URL); useful for [[InterwikiPlugin]] links like TWiki:Codev.ReadmeFirst
- **31 Dec 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Enhanced Plugin API to manipulate topic data with new functions in Func.pm: `readTopicText`, `saveTopicText`, `setTopicEditLock`, `checkTopicEditLock`
- **31 Dec 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%NOAUTOLINK%` setting in the [[TWikiPreferences]] to disable the auto-linking of [[WikiWords]]
- **29 Dec 2002** - TWiki:Main.AndreaSterbini, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin, TWiki:Main.SvenDowideit
  - New Plugin hooks `registrationHandler`, `beforeEditHandler`, `afterEditHandler`, `beforeSaveHandler`, `writeHeaderHandler`, `redirectCgiQueryHandler`, `getSessionValueHandler`, `setSessionValueHandler`
- **30 Nov 2002** - TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin
  - Internationalization ('I18N') support for international characters in [[WikiWords]], such as ISO-8859-15, KOI8-R - also supports Chinese, Japanese, etc.
- **25 Nov 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Include previous topic revision with `%INCLUDE{ "OtherTopic" rev="1.2" }%`
- **15 Nov 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - The Go box understands also URLs, useful for special [[TWikiSkins]] handling
- **08 Nov 2002** - TWiki:Main.ColasNahaboo, TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin
  - In [[WebNotify]], if only the [[WikiName]] is specified, the e-mail is taken from the user's home page; if the [[WikiName]] is a group name, a notification is sent to all members of the group
- **30 Oct 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%NOP{}%` variable in [[TWikiTemplates]] topic gets removed at topic creation time; useful to write protect template topics
- **28 Sep 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - The `%URLPARAM{}%` variable in [[TWikiTemplates]] topic gets expanded at topic creation time; useful for dynamic content creation
- **28 Sep 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `$logDir` introduced in TWiki.cfg to set the log directory
- **13 Sep 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Renamed the **Test** web to **Sandbox**
- **03 Aug 2002** - TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin
  - New `setlib.cfg` file in the bin directory to set the TWiki library path
- **02 Aug 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny, TWiki:Main.RyanFreebern
  - Support for outbound HTTP proxy when including URLs based on new `%PROXYHOST` and `%PROXYPORT%` settings in the [[TWikiPreferences]]
- **12 Jul 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - The page logo is configurable with new `%WIKILOGOIMG%`, `%TWIKILOGOURL%` and `%WIKILOGOALT%` variables in [[TWikiPreferences]]; replacing `$wikiHomeUrl` in TWiki.cfg
- **12 Jun 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%WIKITOOLNAME%` variable in [[TWikiPreferences]]; replacing `$wikiToolName` in TWiki.cfg
- **31 May 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%EDITBOXSTYLE%` preferences variable which sets the edit box width automatically to the window width
- **17 May 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%URLENCODE{}%` variable to encodes a string for using in a URL parameter, e.g. `%URLENCODE{"spaced name"}%` returns `spaced%20name`
- **17 May 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - [[FormattedSearch]] can be nested
- **05 May 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New user home pages are now based on the [[NewUserTemplate]], replacing the `/twiki/templates/register.tmpl` template file
- **26 Apr 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New markup to exclude heading from a `%TOC%` table of content, e.g. `---+!! This heading` is not shown in a TOC
- **13 Apr 2002** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Form and script to create new webs, see [[ManagingWebs]]
- **01 Apr 2002** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - New data storage framework that lets you use external RCS commands for revision control, or a new native Perl implementation that does not depend on the external RCS commands
- **28 Mar 2002** - TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin
  - Fixed IE5/IE6-specific problem whereby going back from preview sometimes removes all edit changes
- **23 Mar 2002** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - New AND search; with regular expression enabled, use the semicolon ";" as the AND operator in `%SEARCH{}%` variable, [[FormattedSearch]] and [[WebSearch]]
- **21 Mar 2002** - TWiki:Main.ColasNahaboo, TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin
  - Fixed cache issue where the edit page showed outdated content
- **06 Mar 2002** - TWiki:Main.RichardDonkin
  - Improved statistics script which uses less memory to process large log files
- **09 Jan 2002** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - Variables inside `<verbatim>` tags are no longer expanded

<a name="AthensRelease"></a>

## <a name="01-Dec-2001 Release (Athens)"></a> 01-Dec-2001 Release (Athens)

- **25 Oct 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added [[FormattedSearch]] to `%SEARCH{}%` variable for database like reporting.

## <a name="01-Sep-2001 Release"></a> 01-Sep-2001 Release

- **30 Aug 2001** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - Easier install for Windows, including auto detection in `TWiki.cfg`
- **30 Aug 2001** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - Ability to move attachments between topics, see [[FileAttachments]]
- **21 Aug 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Convert to XHTML 1.0 function: first step to XHTML-ifying TWiki
- **26 Jun 2001** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - Category information to forms using the [[TWikiMetaData]] format, see [[TWikiForms]]
- **07 Jun 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New topic templates as topics instead of templates. Customize by editing the topic. Retired `notedited.tmpl`, `notext.tmpl` and `notwiki.tmpl` templates. More in [[TWikiTemplates]].
- **07 Jun 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%TOPICLIST{"format"}%` and `%WEBLIST{"format"}%` variables to get a formatted topic index and web index, respectively. More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **01 Jun 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%URLPARAM{"name"}%` variable to query URL parameters. More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **01 Jun 2001** - TWiki:Main.AndreaSterbini
  - API to extend TWiki, see [[TWikiPluginAPI|Main/TWikiPlugins#PluginAPI]]
- **01 Jun 2001** - TWiki:Main.KlausWriessnegger, TWiki:Main.AndreaSterbini
  - Forms to change/reset/install passwords, see [[ChangePassword]] &amp; [[ResetPassword]]
- **01 May 2001** - TWiki:Main.AndreaSterbini
  - The [[TWikiAdminGroup]] (or other group) can be enabled as a [[SuperAdminGroup|Main/TWikiAccessControl#SuperAdminGroup]]. Members have browser edit access to _all_ locked topics.
- **01 May 2001** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - Meta information format, see [[TWikiMetaData]]
- **01 May 2001** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - Attachment under revision control See [[FileAttachment]]
- **01 May 2001** - TWiki:Main.JohnTalintyre
  - Ability to rename/move topics, [[ManagingTopics]]
- **27 Mar 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - The table syntax has been enhanced to (i) render <code>**| \*bold\* |**</code> cells as table headers, (ii) render space padded cells <code>**|  center aligned  |**</code> and <code>**|  right aligned |**</code>, (iii) span multiple columns using <code>**| empty cells |||**</code>. More in [[TextFormattingRules]].
- **25 Mar 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Security fix Questionable files like PHP scripts (executables) and <code>**.htaccess**</code> files that are attached to a topic get a <code>**.txt**</code> suffix appended to the file name. See also TWiki:Codev/FileAttachmentFilterSecurityAlert
- **28 Feb 2001** - TWiki:Main.AndreaSterbini, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New Wiki rule for headings, i.e. `---++ My Title`; and new `%TOC%` variable to build a table of content from headings in a topic. More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **28 Feb 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New Wiki rule to specify arbitrary text for external links (i.e. `[[http://TWki.org][TWiki]]`) and internal links (i.e `[[WikiSyntax][syntax]]`). More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **28 Feb 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New Wiki rule for named anchors, e.g. links within a topic. Define a named anchor with `#MyAnchor` at the beginning of a line, and link to it with `[[#MyAnchor]]`. More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **25 Feb 2001** - TWiki:Main.NicholasLee, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Use `Net::SMTP` module instead of `sendmail` if installed.
- **01 Feb 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added `<verbatim>` ... `</verbatim>` tags to show source code "as is". Unlike the `<pre>` ... `</pre>` tags, it also shows `<`, `>`, `&` characters "as is".
- **01 Feb 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed TWiki:Codev/CreateLinkToAttachedFileBug.
- **21 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added a "Minor change, don't notify" checkbox in preview. More in [[DontNotify]].
- **21 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added Bold Fixed formatting using double-equal signs, e.g. write `==Bold Fixed==` to get <code>**Bold Fixed**</code>.
- **20 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Format changed of `%GMTIME{"..."}%` and `%SERVERTIME{"..."}%` variables. Format is now `"$hour:$min"` instead of `"hour:min"`. More in [[TWikiVariables]]. **_Attention:_** Check your existing topics when you upgrade TWiki!
- **18 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - [[WebChanges]], [[WebSearch]] and e-mail notification indicate also the revision number of a topic (i.e. <u>18 Jan 2001 16:43 r1.5</u>), or NEW for a new topic (i.e. i.e. <u>18 Jan 2001 16:43 **NEW**</u>).
- **16 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New variable `%STARTINCLUDE%` and `%STOPINCLUDE%` variables to control what gets included of a topic. More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **16 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - TWiki skins Define a different page layout with a customized header and footer layout, i.e. a `print` skin for a printable view of a topic. More in [[TWikiSkins]] and TWiki:Codev/TWikiSkins.
- **07 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.StanleyKnutson
  - Better error handling when saving a topic.
- **05 Jan 2001** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - View authorization based on groups. Define who is allowed to see a TWiki web. More in [[TWikiAccessControl]] and TWiki:Codev/AuthenticationBasedOnGroups.
- **05 Dec 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Improved include handling. Infinite recursion of includes are prevented; new variables `%BASEWEB%`, `%INCLUDINGWEB%`, `%BASETOPIC%` and `%INCLUDINGTOPIC%` to have more control over include handling. More in [[TWikiVariables]] and TWiki:Codev/IncludeHandlingImprovements.
- **03 Dec 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `noheader="on"` switch in `%SEARCH{...}%` to suppress table header. More in [[TWikiVariables]].

## <a name="01-Dec-2000 Release"></a> 01-Dec-2000 Release

- **03 Nov 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Flag `$doHidePasswdInRegistration` in `wikicfg.pm` to hide plain text password in registration e-mail.
- **01 Nov 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New variable `%VAR{"NAME" web="Web"}%` to get web-specific preferences. More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **01 Nov 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added a "Cancel" link in edit that releases the edit lock.
- **23 Oct 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Authorization based on groups. Define fine graned control who is allowed to change or create topics. More in [[TWikiAccessControl]] and TWiki:Codev/AuthenticationBasedOnGroups.
- **05 Oct 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Remember user by IP address so that `view` "knows" the user once authenticated in `edit`. More in [[TWikiUserAuthentication]].
- **26 Sep 2000** - TWiki:Main.AlWilliams, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed TWiki:Codev/UppercaseAttachments bug and added `png` image support.
- **26 Sep 2000** - TWiki:Main.HaroldGottschalk, TWiki:Main.AndreaSterbini, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Allow nesting of variables, i.e. `%INCLUDE{"%TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable"}%`. More in TWiki:Codev/BetterTWikiTagTemplateProcessing.
- **20 Sep 2000** - TWiki:Main.ManpreetSingh
  - New -q switch in `mailnotify` to suppress all normal output.
- **19 Sep 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed TWiki:Codev/AttachedNotificationLinksBug.
- **18 Sep 2000** - TWiki:Main.ManpreetSingh, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added forced internal links. Write `[[text formatting FAQ]]` to get the link [[text formatting FAQ|Main/TextFormattingFAQ]] that points to topic [[TextFormattingFAQ]].
- **19 Aug 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Ref-By link searches all webs (not just the current web.)
- **16 Aug 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New [[TWikiPreferences]] variables `%HTTP_EQUIV_ON_VIEW%` , `%HTTP_EQUIV_ON_EDIT%` and `%HTTP_EQUIV_ON_PREVIEW%` that define the `<meta http-equiv="...">` meta tags for the TWiki templates. This can be used for example to set a document expiration time.
- **29 Jul 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New variables `%GMTIME{"..."}%` and `%SERVERTIME{"..."}%` . More in [[TWikiVariables]].
- **23 Jul 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Changed include syntax from `%INCLUDE{"Web/TopicName.txt"}%` to `%INCLUDE{"Web.TopicName"}%` . Legacy syntax still supported.
- **23 Jul 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - [[BookView]] search allows you show a set of topics for easy printing.
- **22 Jul 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - More forgiving syntax for <code>\*bold\*, _italic_, \_\_bold italic\_\_</code> and <code>**fixed**</code> , where it is not necessary anymore to have a trailing space before `.,;:?!` characters.
- **22 Jul 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Split the TWiki.Main web into TWiki.Main (users, company data) and TWiki.TWiki (TWiki related documentation, registration)
- **07 Jul 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added an "Release edit lock" checkbox in preview to let other people edit the topic immediately without the one hour lock.
- **07 Jul 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed problem of losing carriage returns when editing topics with KDE KFM browser or W3M browser.
- **21 Jun 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed problem that a page redirect on some server environments is not working (host name is needed in URL).
- **21 Jun 2000** - TWiki:Main.CrisBailiff, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed security issue to prevent a server side `%INCLUDE%` of arbitrary files.
- **29 May 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New `%GMTIME%` variable that shows the current GM time.
- **28 May 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Lock warning shows remaining lock time in minutes.
- **15 May 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterFokkinga
  - Each topic can have its own template file. [[TWikiTemplates]] has more.
- **02 May 2000** - TWiki:Main.KevinKinnell, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Advanced search features like search multiple webs; sort by topic name / modified time / author; limit the number of results returned. More in [[TWikiVariables]].

## <a name="01-May-2000 Release"></a> 01-May-2000 Release

- **21 Apr 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New [[TWikiVariables]] `%HTTP_HOST%` , `%REMOTE_ADDR%` , `%REMOTE_PORT%` and `%REMOTE_USER%` .
- **21 Apr 2000** - TWiki:Main.JohnAltstadt, TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - [[TWikiRegistration]] is done separately for Intranet use (depends on remote\_user) or Internet use (depends on .htpasswd file).
- **20 Mar 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Uploading a file (topic file attachment) will optionally create a link to the uploaded file at the end of the topic. The preference variable `%ATTACHLINKBOX%` controls the default state of the **_link_** check box in the attach file page.
- **11 Mar 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Better security with taint checking ( `Perl -T` option )
- **25 Feb 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New preference variables `%EDITBOXWIDTH%` and `%EDITBOXHEIGHT%` to specify the edit box size.
- **25 Feb 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Edit preferences topics to set TWiki variables. There are three level of preferences Site-level ([[TWikiPreferences]]), web-level ([[WebPreferences]] in each web) and user-level preferences (for each of the [[TWikiUsers]]). With this, discontinue use of server side include of `wikiwebs.inc` , `wikiwebtable.inc` , `weblist.inc` , `webcopyright.inc` and `webcolors.inc` files.
- **11 Feb 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New variable `%SCRIPTSUFFIX%` / $scriptSuffix containing an optional file extension of the TWiki Perl script. Templates have been changed to use this variable. This allows you to rename the Perl script files to have a file extension like for example ".cgi".
- **11 Feb 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New variable `%SCRIPTURLPATH%` / $scriptUrlPath containing the script URL without the domain name. Templates have been changed to use this variable instead of `%SCRIPTURL%` . This is for performance reasons.
- **07 Feb 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Changed the syntax for server side include variable from `%INCLUDE:"filename.ext"%` to `%INCLUDE{"filename.ext"}%` . (Previous syntax still supported. Change was done because of inline search syntax)
- **07 Feb 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Inline search. New variable `%SEARCH{"str" ...}%` to show a search result embedded in a topic text. [[TWikiVariables]] has more on the syntax. Inline search combined with the category table feature can be used for example to create a simple bug tracking system.
- **04 Feb 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Access statistics. Each web has a [[WebStatistics]] topic that shows monthy statistics with number of topic views and changes, most popular topics, and top contributors. (It needs to be enabled, [[TWikiDocumentation]] has more.)
- **29 Jan 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed bug where TWiki would not initialize correctly under certain circumstances, i.e. when running it under mod\_perl. Sub `initialize` in `wiki.pm` did not handle `$thePathInfo` correctly.
- **24 Jan 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed bug where an e-mail address starting with a [[WikiName]] was rendered as an internal Wiki link instead of an e-mail address, i.e. <SomeWikiName@somewhere.test> .
- **10 Jan 2000** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - No more escaping for '%' percent characters. (Number of consecutive '%' entered and displayed is identical.)
- **03 Oct 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Limit the number of revisions shown at the bottom of the topic. Example %BR% Topic %TOPIC% . \{ ..... [Diffs](http://www.dementia.org/twiki/rdiff/%WEB%/%TOPIC%) r1.10 [&gt;](http://www.dementia.org/twiki/rdiff/%WEB%/%TOPIC%?rev1=1.10&rev2=1.9) [[r1.9|%WEB%/%TOPIC%?rev=1.9]] [&gt;](http://www.dementia.org/twiki/rdiff/%WEB%/%TOPIC%?rev1=1.9&rev2=1.8) [[r1.8|%WEB%/%TOPIC%?rev=1.8]] [&gt;](http://www.dementia.org/twiki/rdiff/%WEB%/%TOPIC%?rev1=1.8&rev2=1.7) [[r1.7|%WEB%/%TOPIC%?rev=1.7]] [&gt;...](http://www.dementia.org/twiki/oops/%WEB%/%TOPIC%?template=oopsrev&param1=1.10) \} %BR% Additional revisions can be selected by pressing the `>...` link.

## <a name="01-Sep-1999 Release"></a> 01-Sep-1999 Release

- **31 Aug 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed Y2K bug. (Date in year 2000 had wrong format.)
- **08 Aug 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New text formatting rule for creating tables. Text gets rendered as a table if enclosed in " " vertical bars. Example line as it is written and how it shows up
- **03 Aug 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Online registration of new user using web form in [[TWikiRegistration]]. Authentication of users.
- **22 Jul 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Flags `$doLogTopic*` in wikicfg.pm to selectively log topic view, edit, save, rdiff, attach, search and changes to monthly log file.
- **21 Jul 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Flag `$doRemovePortNumber` in wikicfg.pm to optionally remove the port number from the TWiki URL. Example `www.some.domain:1234/twiki` gets `www.some.domain/twiki` .
- **15 Jul 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Search path for include files in `%INCLUDE:"file.inc"%` variable. Search first in the current web, then in parent data directory. Useful to overload default include text in the data directory by web-specific text, like for example `webcopyright.inc` text.
- **07 Jul 1999** - TWiki:Main.ChristopheVermeulen
  - Link a plural topic to a singular topic in case the plural topic does not exist. Example `TestVersion` / `TestVersions` , `TestPolicy` / `TestPolicies` , `TestAddress` / `TestAddresses` , `TestBox` / `TestBoxes` .

## <a name="01-Jul-1999 Release"></a> 01-Jul-1999 Release

- **23 Jun 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New [[TextFormattingRules]] to write **_bold italic_** text by enclosing words with double underline characters.
- **23 Jun 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Separate wiki.pm into configuration (wikicfg.pm) and TWiki core (wiki.pm) . This is to ease the upgrade of TWiki installations, it also allows customized extensions to TWiki without affecting the TWiki core.
- **21 May 1999** - TWiki:Main.DavidWarman
  - Externalize copyright text at the bottom of every page into a web-specific `webcopyright.inc` file. This is to easily customize the copyright text.
- **20 May 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added meta tag so that robots index only /view/ of topics, not /edit/, /attach/ e.t.c. Tag &lt;META NAME="ROBOTS" CONTENT="NOINDEX"&gt;
- **20 May 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New variables `%WIKIHOMEURL%` (link when pressing the icon on the upper left corner) and `%WIKITOOLNAME%` (the name of the wiki tool `%WIKITOOLNAME%` ).
- **15 Apr 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Topic locking Warn user if a topic has been edited by an _other_ person within _one_ hour. This is to prevent contention, e.g. simultaneous topic updates.
- **26 Mar 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - File attachments Upload and download any file as a topic attachment by using the browser. [[FileAttachment]] has more.
- **26 Mar 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New variables `%PUBURL%` (Public directory URL) and `%ATTACHURL%` (URL of topic file attachment).
- **09 Feb 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - New text formatting rule for creating `fixed font text` . Words get showns in `fixed font` by enclosing them in "=" equal signs. Example Writing =fixed font= will show up as `fixed font` .
- **09 Feb 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - No new topic revision is created if the _same_ person saves a topic again within _one_ hour.
- **03 Feb 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Possible to view complete revision history of a topic on one page. Access at the linked date in the Changes page, or the `Diffs` link at the bottom of each topic, e.g. %BR% ` Topic TWikiHistory . { Edit Ref-By Diffs r1.3 > r1.2 > r1.1 } %BR% Revision r1.3 1998/11/10 01:34 by PeterThoeny `
- **04 Jan 1999** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Fixed bug when viewing differences between topic revisions that include HTML table tags like &lt;table&gt;, &lt;tr&gt;, &lt;td&gt;.

## <a name="1998 Releases"></a> 1998 Releases

- **08 Dec 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Signature is shown below the text area when editing a topic. Use this to easily copy &amp; paste your signature into the text.
- **07 Dec 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Possible to add a category table to a TWiki topic. This permits storing and searching for more structured information. Editing a topic shows a HTML form with the usual text area and a table with selectors, checkboxes, radio buttons and text fields. [[TWikiDocumentation]] has more on setup. The TWiki.Know web uses this category table to set classification, platform and OS version.
- **18 Nov 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Internal log of topic save actions to the file `data/logYYYYMM.txt`, where `YYYYMM` the year and month in numeric format is. Intended for auditing only, not accessible from the web.
- **10 Nov 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - The e-mail notification and the Changes topic have now a topic date that is linked. Clicking on the link will show the difference between the two most recent topic revisions.
- **10 Nov 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - View differences between topic revisions. Each topic has a list of revisions (e.g. `r1.3`) and differences thereof (e.g. `>`) at the bottom %BR% ` Topic TWikiHistory . { Edit Ref-By r1.3 > r1.2 > r1.1 } %BR% Revision r1.3 1998/11/10 01:34 by TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny `
- **26 Oct 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added preview of topic changes before saving the topic. This was necessary to prevent unneeded revisions.
- **26 Oct 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added revision control using RCS. Each topic has now a list of revisions at the bottom and a revision info, e.g. %BR% ` Topic TWikiHistory . { Edit Ref-By r1.3 r1.2 r1.1 } %BR% Revision r1.3 1998/10/26 01:34:00 by TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny `
- **14 Oct 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Refered-By Find out which topics have a link to the current topic. Each topic has a Ref-By link for that. Note Only references from the current web are shown, not references from other webs.
- **13 Oct 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Alphabetical topic index in [[WebSearch]].
- **24 Sep 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Corrected templates for automatic e-mail notification so that MS Outlook can display attachment as an HTML file.
- **13 Aug 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - [[WikiNotation]] allows also numbers after the `AaA` sequence, e.g. `AaA1` is a valid [[TWikiTopics]] name, but not `Aa1`.
- **07 Aug 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Automatic e-mail notification when something has changed in a TWiki web. Each web has a topic [[WebNotify]] where one can subscribe and unsubscribe.
- **06 Aug 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added server side include of files. Syntax is `%INCLUDE:"filename.ext"%`
- **05 Aug 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Signature and date is inserted automatically when creating a new topic.
- **04 Aug 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Separate templates for text of non existing topic and default text of new topic. (template file templates/Web/notedited.tmpl)
- **04 Aug 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Warn user if new topic name is not a valid Wiki name. (template file templates/Web/notwiki.tmpl)
- **31 Jul 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Support for quoted text with a '&gt;' at the beginning of the line.
- **28 Jul 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added TWiki variables, enclosed in % signs `%TOPIC%` (Topic name), `%WEB%` (web name), `%SCRIPTURL%` (script URL), `%DATE%` (current date), `%WIKIWEBMASTER%` (Wiki webmaster address), `%WIKIVERSION%` (Wiki version), `%USERNAME%` (user name), `%WIKIUSERNAME%` (Wiki user name).
- **28 Jul 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Topic [[WebChanges]] shows Wiki username instead of Intranet username, e.g. `PeterThoeny` instead of `thoeny` in case the Wiki username exists. Implementation Automatic lookup of Wiki username in topic [[TWikiUsers]].
- **28 Jul 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Topic index. (Technically speaking a simple '.\*' search on topic names.)
- **28 Jul 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Topic [[WebSearch]] allows full text search and and topic search with/without regular expressions.
- **27 Jul 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Added automatic links to topics in other TWiki webs by specifying &lt;web name&gt;.&lt;topic name&gt;, e.g. `Know.WebSeach` .
- **23 Jul 1998** - TWiki:Main.PeterThoeny
  - Installed initial version, based on the JOS Wiki. See [[WikiWikiClones]] for details.

## <a name="Dev Flow"></a> Dev Flow

The typical TWiki development flow...

- TWiki:Codev.FeatureBrainstorming: open forum for new ideas
- TWiki:Codev.FeatureEnhancementRequest: specific detailed request
- TWiki:Codev.FeatureToDo: prioritized to up-next dev status
- TWiki:Codev.FeatureUnderConstruction: currently in development
- TWiki:Codev.FeatureDone: completed and implemented
- TWiki:Codev.DocRequest: request for documentation
- TWiki:Codev.DocsToDo: feature documentation pending
- TWiki:Codev.FeatureDocumented: documented feature
- [[TWikiDocumentation]]: reference manual for the latest TWiki

**_Related Topics:_** [[DeveloperDocumentationCategory]]
