<a name="VarMAKETEXT"></a>

### <a name="MAKETEXT -- creates text using T"></a> MAKETEXT -- creates text using TWiki's [[I18N]] infrastructure

- Syntax: `%MAKETEXT{"string" args="..."}`
- Supported parameters: <table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Parameter </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Description </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Default </strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>"text"</code> or <code>string="text"</code></td>
    <td> The text to be displayed. </td>
    <td><em>none</em></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>args="param1, param2"</code></td>
    <td> a comma-separated list of arguments to be interpolated in the string, replacing the <code>[_N]</code> placeholders in it. </td>
    <td><em>none</em></td>
  </tr>
</table>
- Examples:
  - `%MAKETEXT{string="Notes:"}%` %BR% expands to %BR% _ Notes: _
  - `%MAKETEXT{"If you have any questions, please contact [_1]." args="%WIKIWEBMASTER%"}%` %BR% expands to %BR% _ If you have any questions, please contact 0. _
  - `%MAKETEXT{"Did you want to [[[_1]][reset [_2]'s password]]?" args="%TWIKIWEB%.ResetPassword,%WIKIUSERNAME%"}%` %BR% expands to %BR% _ Did you want to [[reset Main.admin's password|TWiki/ResetPassword]]? _
- **_Notes:_**
  - TWiki will translate the `string` to the current user's language _only_ if it has such string in its translation table for that language.
  - Amperstands (`&`) followed by one letter (one of a...z, A...Z) (say, `X`) in the translatable string will be translated to `<span class='twikiAccessKey'>X</span>`. This is used to implement access keys. If you want to write an actual amperstand that stays just before a letter, write two consecutive amperstands (`&&`): they will be transformed in just one.
  - translatable string starting with underscores (`_`) are reserved. You **cannot** use translatable phrases starting with an underscore.
  - Make sure that the translatable string is _constant_. Specially, do **not** include `%VARIABLES%` inside the translatable strings (since they will get expanded **before** the `%MAKETEXT{...}%` itself is handled).
