<a name="VarMETA"></a>

### <a name="META -- displays meta-data"></a> META -- displays meta-data

- Provided mainly for use in templates, this variable generates the parts of the topic view that relate to meta-data (attachments, forms etc.) The `formfield` item is the most likely to be useful to casual users.
- Syntax: `%META{ "item" ...}%`
- Parameters: <table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Item </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Options </strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong> Description </strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>"formfield"</code></td>
    <td><code>name="..."</code>: name of the field. The field value can be shortened as described in %SYSTEMWEB%.FormattedSearch for <code>$formfield</code> %BR% <code>newline="..."</code>: by default, each newline character will be rewritten to <code>&lt;br /&gt;</code> to allow metadata that contains newlines to be used in tables, etc. <code>$n</code> indicates a newline character. %BR% <code>bar="..."</code>: by default, each vertical bar is rewritten to an HTML entity so as to not be mistaken for a table separator. </td>
    <td> Show a single form field </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>"form"</code></td>
    <td><em>none</em></td>
    <td> Generates the table showing the form fields. See [[Main/TWikiDocumentation#Form_Templates]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>"attachments"</code></td>
    <td><code>all="on"</code> to show hidden attachments. %BR% <code>title="..."</code> to show a title - only if attachments are displayed. %BR% <code>template="..."</code> to use a custom template for the rendering of attachments; default <code>attachtables</code> is used. </td>
    <td> Generates the list of attachments </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>"moved"</code></td>
    <td><em>none</em></td>
    <td> Details of any topic moves </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>"parent"</code></td>
    <td><code>dontrecurse="on"</code>: By default recurses up tree, this has some cost. %BR% <code>nowebhome="on"</code>: Suppress WebHome. %BR% <code>prefix="..."</code>: Prefix that goes before parents, but only if there are parents, default <code>""</code>. %BR% <code>format="..."</code>: Format string used to display each parent topic where <code>$web</code> expands to the web name, and <code>$topic</code> expands to the topic name; default: <code>"[[$web.$topic][$topic]]"</code> %BR% <code>suffix="..."</code>: Suffix, only appears if there are parents; default <code>""</code>. %BR% <code>separator="..."</code>: Separator between parents; default <code>" &gt; "</code>. </td>
    <td> Generates the parent link </td>
  </tr>
</table>
- Related: [[METASEARCH|Main/VarMETASEARCH]]
