## <a name="%WEB% Web Preferences"></a> %WEB% Web Preferences

The following settings are **_web preferences_** of the [[%WEB%|WEB/WebHome]] web. These preferences overwrite the **_site-level preferences_** in [[TWikiPreferences]], and can be overwritten by **_user preferences_** (your personal topic, eg: [[TWikiGuest]] in the [[Main|Main/WebHome]] web).

**_Preferences:_**

- List of topics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web:
  - Set WEBTOPICLIST = [[Welcome|Main/WelcomeGuest]] | [[Register|Main/TWikiRegistration]] | [[Changes|Main/WebChanges]] | [[Topics|Main/WebTopicList]] | [[Index|Main/WebIndex]] | [[Search|Main/WebSearch]] | Go <input name="topic" size="16" type="text" />

- Web specific background color: (Pick a lighter one of the [[StandardColors]])
  - Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFD8AA

- List this web in the [[SiteMap]]:
  - If yes, Set SITEMAPLIST = `on`, and add the "what" and "use to..." description for the site map. Make sure to list only links that include the name of the web, e.g. %WEB%.Topic links.
  - Set SITEMAPLIST = on
  - Set SITEMAPWHAT = [[Welcome|WEB/WelcomeGuest]], [[Registration|WEB/TWikiRegistration]], and other %WEB%.StartingPoints; TWiki history &amp; Wiki style; All the docs...
  - Set SITEMAPUSETO = ...discover TWiki details, and how to start your own site.

- Exclude web from a `web="all"` search: (Set to `on` for hidden webs)
  - Set NOSEARCHALL =

- Prevent automatic linking of [[WikiWords]] and acronyms (if set to `on`); link WikiWords (if empty); can be overwritten by web preferences:
  - Set NOAUTOLINK =
  - **_Note:_** Use the `[[...][...]]` syntax to link topics in case you disabled WikiWord linking. The `<noautolink> ... </noautolink>` syntax can be used to prevents links within a block of text.

- Default template for new topics and form(s) for this web:
  - [[WebTopicEditTemplate]]: Site-level default template for new topics
  - [[TWikiForms]]: How to enable form(s)
  - Set WEBFORMS =

- Users or groups who **_are not_** / **_are_** allowed to **_view_** / **_change_** / **_rename_** topics in the %WEB% web: (See [[TWikiAccessControl]])
  - Set DENYWEBVIEW =
  - Set ALLOWWEBVIEW =
  - Set DENYWEBCHANGE =
  - Set ALLOWWEBCHANGE =
  - Set DENYWEBRENAME =
  - Set ALLOWWEBRENAME =

- Users or groups allowed to change or rename this %TOPIC% topic: (I.e. [[TWikiAdminGroup]])
  - Set ALLOWTOPICCHANGE =
  - Set ALLOWTOPICRENAME = [[TWikiAdminGroup]]

- Web preferences that are **not** allowed to be overridden by user preferences:
  - Set FINALPREFERENCES = NOSEARCHALL, ATTACHFILESIZELIMIT, WIKIWEBMASTER, WEBCOPYRIGHT, WEBTOPICLIST, DENYWEBVIEW, ALLOWWEBVIEW, DENYWEBCHANGE, ALLOWWEBCHANGE, DENYWEBRENAME, ALLOWWEBRENAME

**_Notes:_**

- A preference is defined as: <br />`6 spaces * Set NAME = value`<br /> Example:
  - Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0
- Preferences are used as [[TWikiVariables]] by enclosing the name in percent signs. Example:
  - When you write variable `%WEBBGCOLOR%` , it gets expanded to `%WEBBGCOLOR%` .
- The sequential order of the preference settings is significant. Define preferences that use other preferences first, i.e. set `WEBCOPYRIGHT` before `WIKIWEBMASTER` since `%WEBCOPYRIGHT%` uses the `%WIKIWEBMASTER%` variable.
- You can introduce new preferences variables and use them in your topics and templates. There is no need to change the %WIKITOOLNAME% engine (Perl scripts).

**_Related Topics:_**

- [[TWikiPreferences]] has site-level preferences.
- [[TWikiUsers]] has a list of user topics. User topics can have optional user preferences.
- [[TWikiVariables]] has a list of common `%VARIABLES%`.
- [[TWikiAccessControl]] explains how to restrict access by users or groups.
