# <a name="What is a _WikiWord?"></a><a name=" What is a _WikiWord?"></a> What is a WikiWord?

A WikiWord consists of two or more words with initial capitals, run together. **WikiWords are topic names.** A TWiki topic name always has a fixed format: two or more words with initial capitals, run together. Like the name of the current topic: **WikiWord**. When you type the name of a topic, you create a link to that topic. You type `WebHome` and on saving the page this becomes [[WebHome]]. It's as easy as that.

When you type a WikiWord, you establish a hyperlink. It's as easy as that.

WikiWord linking is easy to use:

- You don't have to know the full path to where the topic is stored - you just type the name
- You don't need to write HTML
- Without HTML, the topic text is easier to read when editing
- Easy linking leads to interesting texts with links placed in context

WikiWords are styled like this because:

- It makes Wiki hyperlinks instantly recognizable
- It leads to interesting Wiki topics
- It avoids the need to fiddle with HTML tags
- It avoids over-general topics because at least two words are required

## <a name="Syntax of a _WikiWord"></a> Syntax of a WikiWord

- Uppercase letter(s)
- Lowercase letter(s) or numbers(s)
- Uppercase letter(s)
- Optional lowercase or uppercase letter(s) or number(s)

## <a name="Good examples of _WikiWords"></a> Good examples of WikiWords

- [[WikiWord]]
- [[GoodStyle]]
- [[VersionFiveDotThree]]
- [[ReleaseVersion5dot3]]
- [[AVeryLongWikiTopicNameIsAlsoPossible]]: wherever an uppercase or lowercase letter is allowed, a group of letters of the same case is allowed
- [[YearTwoThousand]]
- [[Nine2Five]]: Note that numbers are considered to be lowercase letters in WikiWords

## <a name="Bad examples of _WikiWords:"></a> Bad examples of WikiWords:

- Web: Name without the uppercase letter(s), lowercase letter(s), uppercase letter(s) sequence
- 5TWiki: Name beginning with a number
- Know-How: Name with dashes in between

## <a name="Variations in linking"></a> Variations in linking

When you write the name of a topic, it becomes a link. There are more ways

- To write a custom **link label**, use bracket notation: `[[TWikiAccessControl][access control]]` - this becomes: [[access control|Main/TWikiAccessControl]]
- To link to a topic in **another web**, write: `Sandbox.WebSearch` - this becomes: [[WebSearch]]
- To show the web name in the link use bracket notation: `[[Sandbox.WebHome]]` - this becomes: [[Sandbox.WebHome|Sandbox/WebHome]]
- To link to a topic on **another Wiki site**, use: `TWiki:Main/WebHome` - this becomes: TWiki:Main/WebHome (sites are defined in the [[InterwikiPlugin]])
- To link to a part on the **same page**, write a "#" followed by the name of an anchor. The anchor is a "#" followed by a name which must be a WikiName. Example `#MyAnchor`. You can also link to an anchor on another page: `TWiki.WebHome#MyAnchor`.
- To link to a header on the **same page**, write a "#" followed by the header text, with spaces replaced by underscores (and `!` removed): `[[#Good_examples_of_WikiWords]]` becomes: [[#Good_examples_of_WikiWords|Main/WebHome#Good_examples_of_WikiWords]]. You can also link to a header on another page: `TWiki.WebHome#Disclaimer` becomes: [[WebHome#Disclaimer]].

## <a name="Hints"></a> Hints

- Insert WikiWords wherever you can. Rich linking helps to make a Wiki successful.
- Be specific. All topics in a web share one name space. For example, instead of `FunctionalSpec` write `BreadSlicerFunctionalSpec` because other projects might also have a functional spec topic.
- To stop a WikiWord from being turned into a hyperlink, insert an exclamation point immediately before the WikiWord. For example, write `!SunOS` to get SunOS.
- Create topics with singular names. Plural WikiWords are automatically linked to the singular topic, i.e. the link [[WikiWords]] links to the topic [[WikiWord]] (works only in English).
- Sometimes you have to be creative to find a good WikiName. Examples:
  - To create a topic about the the **Bread Slicer 1.2** product, use `BreadSlicer1dot2` or `BreadSlicer1pt2`, but not `BreadSlicer1.2`.
  - Numbers are considered lowercase which makes `Year2K` and `Y2K` WikiWords but not `Y2000` and `Y2k`.
- Turn acronyms into WikiWords, i.e. take `FaqIndex` for a "FAQ index" topic.
- It is possible to turn off the auto-linking of WikiWords and to rely only on the bracket notation. See NOAUTOLINK setting in [[TWikiPreferences#Default_Web_Preferences]].
- %X% When linking to a WebHome topic _in another web_, the link will be rendered as the name of the web, e.g. `Sandbox.WebHome` becomes [[Sandbox|Sandbox/WebHome]].

**_Related Topics:_** [[WikiSyntax]], [[TextFormattingRules]]
