Every AFS file server machine must have at least one partition or logical volume dedicated to storing AFS volumes. Each server partition is mounted at a directory named /vicepxx, where xx is one or two lowercase letters. The /vicepxx directories must reside in the file server machine's root directory, not in one of its subdirectories (for example, /usr/vicepa is not an acceptable directory location). For additional information, see Performing Platform-Specific Procedures.

AFS supports use of both EFS and XFS partitions for housing AFS volumes. SGI encourages use of XFS partitions.

1. Create a directory called /vicepxx for each AFS server partition you are configuring (there must be at least one). Repeat the command for each partition.

       # mkdir /vicepxx

1. Add a line with the following format to the file systems registry file, /etc/fstab, for each partition (or logical volume created with the XLV volume manager) to be mounted on one of the directories created in the previous step.

For an XFS partition or logical volume:

       /dev/dsk/disk  /vicepxx  xfs  rw,raw=/dev/rdsk/disk  0  0

For an EFS partition:

       /dev/dsk/disk  /vicepxx  efs  rw,raw=/dev/rdsk/disk  0  0

The following are examples of an entry for each file system type:

       /dev/dsk/dks0d2s6 /vicepa  xfs rw,raw=/dev/rdsk/dks0d2s6  0 0
       /dev/dsk/dks0d3s1 /vicepb  efs rw,raw=/dev/rdsk/dks0d3s1  0 0

1. Create a file system on each partition that is to be mounted on a /vicepxx directory. The following commands are probably appropriate, but consult the IRIX documentation for more information. In both cases, raw\_device is a raw device name like /dev/rdsk/dks0d0s0 for a single disk partition or /dev/rxlv/xlv0 for a logical volume.

For XFS file systems, include the indicated options to configure the partition or logical volume with inodes large enough to accommodate AFS-specific information:

       # mkfs -t xfs -i size=512 -l size=4000b raw_device

For EFS file systems:

       # mkfs -t efs raw_device

1. Mount each partition by issuing either the mount -a command to mount all partitions at once or the mount command to mount each partition in turn.

1. (Optional) If you have configured partitions or logical volumes to use XFS, issue the following command to verify that the inodes are configured properly (are large enough to accommodate AFS-specific information). If the configuration is correct, the command returns no output. Otherwise, it specifies the command to run in order to configure each partition or logical volume properly.

       # /usr/afs/bin/xfs_size_check
