## <a name="Progress of the new Windows docu"></a> Progress of the new Windows documentation

### <a name="Ideas"></a> Ideas

- [[WindowsAdministratorsInstallationGuide]] Where to download the package. Walk-through of the installation steps. Optional steps afterwards ([[KfW]], references into the Configuration Guide.
- [[WindowsEndUserQuickStartGuide]] Same as above, but maybe even more Walk-Through. Explain a sample configuration. Should also include some use cases.
- [[WindowsConfigurationReferenceGuide]] One page for each screen of the afscreds program. Command-line switches reference.
- [[WindowsTroubleshootingGuide]] (FAQ) Not questions like "Where do I download [[OpenAFS]]?"

### <a name="Done"></a> Done

- Writing initial documents.
- Converted the [[WindowsConfigurationReferenceGuide]] to [[DocBook]] and setup a transform to HTMLHelp.

### <a name="To Do"></a> To Do

- Getting the facts right. Everybody should help out on this one.
- Design a layout to use for the docs. Should be compatible with Windows own HTML Help layout.
- Convert the Wiki into XML and create XSLTs for PDF, (online) HTML and (offline) HTML Help documents. Docbook might be suitable.
- Spell and grammar check. By anyone up for it.
- Get the XML and XSLT into CVS, creating makefiles.
- Tag the XML for use with context help.
- Update the source code to use the new help files.

### <a name="Links"></a> Links

- [Rodney Dyer's presentation](http://www.coe.uncc.edu/~rmdyer/slac_presentation/).
- The [afs-install-notes.txt](http://web.mit.edu/~jaltman/Public/OpenAFS/afs-install-notes.txt) file.
- The [registry.txt](http://web.mit.edu/~jaltman/Public/OpenAFS/registry.txt) file.
- The [[WindowsLoopBackAdapter]] page.

### <a name="Things That Are Not Implemented"></a><a name="Things That Are Not Implemented "></a> Things That Are Not Implemented Yet

Registry:

- [[LogoffTokenTransfer]], [[LogoffTokenTransferTimeout]] (are not used)
- [[NoWarnings]] (not used anymore)
- Class, [[DependOnGroup]], [[DependOnService]], Name, [[ProviderPath]] (Windows internal information)
- Gateway (is deprecated)
- Remainders/ (why per-domain?)
- [[ActiveMaps]]/ (via UI)
- Mappings/ (via UI)
