## <a name="%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% Web Prefere"></a> %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% Web Preferences

The following settings are **_web preferences_** of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. These preferences overwrite the **_site-level preferences_** in [[TWikiPreferences]], and can be overwritten by **_user preferences_** (your personal topic, i.e. [[TWikiGuest]] in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.Main web)

**_Preferences:_**

- List of topics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web:
  - Set WEBTOPICLIST = [[Home|Main/WebHome]] | [[Changes|Main/WebChanges]] | [[Index|Main/WebIndex]] | [[Search|Main/WebSearch]] | Go <input name="topic" size="16" type="text" />

- Web specific background color: (Pick a lighter one of the [[StandardColors]])
  - Set WEBBGCOLOR = #99CCFF

- Exclude web from a `web="all"` search: (Set to `on` for hidden webs)
  - Set NOSEARCHALL =

- Default template for new topics and form(s) for this web:
  - [[WebTopicEditTemplate]]: Default template for new topics in this web. (Site-level is used if topic does not exist)
  - [[TWiki.WebTopicEditTemplate|TWiki/WebTopicEditTemplate]]: Site-level default template
  - [[TWikiForms]]: How to enable form(s)
  - Set WEBFORMS =

- Users or groups who **_are not_** / **_are_** allowed to **_view_** / **_change_** / **_rename_** topics in the %WEB% web: (See [[TWikiAccessControl]])
  - Set DENYWEBVIEW =
  - Set ALLOWWEBVIEW =
  - Set DENYWEBCHANGE = [[TWikiGuest]]
  - Set ALLOWWEBCHANGE =
  - Set DENYWEBRENAME = [[TWikiGuest]]
  - Set ALLOWWEBRENAME =

- Users or groups allowed to change or rename this %TOPIC% topic: (I.e. [[TWikiAdminGroup]])
  - Set ALLOWTOPICCHANGE = [[TWikiAdminGroup]]
  - Set ALLOWTOPICRENAME = [[TWikiAdminGroup]]

- Web preferences that are **not** allowed to be overridden by user preferences:
  - Set FINALPREFERENCES = WEBTOPICLIST, DENYWEBVIEW, ALLOWWEBVIEW, DENYWEBCHANGE, ALLOWWEBCHANGE, DENYWEBRENAME, ALLOWWEBRENAME

**_Notes:_**

- A preference is defined as: <br />`6 spaces * Set NAME = value`<br /> Example:
  - Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0
- Preferences are used as [[TWikiVariables]] by enclosing the name in percent signs. Example:
  - When you write variable `%WEBBGCOLOR%` , it gets expanded to `%WEBBGCOLOR%` .
- The sequential order of the preference settings is significant. Define preferences that use other preferences first, i.e. set `WEBCOPYRIGHT` before `WIKIWEBMASTER` since `%WEBCOPYRIGHT%` uses the `%WIKIWEBMASTER%` variable.
- You can introduce new preferences variables and use them in your topics and templates. There is no need to change the %WIKITOOLNAME% engine (Perl scripts).

**_Related Topics:_**

- [[TWikiPreferences]] has site-level preferences.
- [[TWikiUsers]] has a list of user topics. User topics can have optional user preferences.
- [[TWikiVariables]] has a list of common `%VARIABLES%`.
- [[TWikiAccessControl]] explains how to restrict access by users or groups.
