-- [[JeffreyAltman]] - 14 Jun 2008

This page provides a partial list of the work that must be done to update the AFS Servers on the Microsoft Windows platform.

## <a name="NetRestrict and _NetInfo configu"></a> [[NetRestrict]] and [[NetInfo]] configuration files

The Windows AFS Servers (nor the client) has no support for the AFS [[NetRestrict]] and [[NetInfo]] files. This makes it very difficult to deploy servers on Windows systems which often include a variety of network adapters beyond just the physical adapter. The location of AFSDIR\_SERVER\_NETRESTRICT\_FILEPATH and AFSDIR\_SERVER\_NETINFO\_FILEPATH have already been defined in src/util/dirpath\_nt.h and src/util/dirpath.c.

## <a name="The NT vol back end"></a> The NT vol back end

The NT vol back end (ntops.c) is based upon the [[NameI]] back end for UNIX but is designed to work with NTFS. Over the years the UNIX [[NameI]] back end has received a number of bug fixes and improvements. We need to verify that none of these changes must also be implemented for the NT back end. [link to namei\_ops.c cvs history](http://www.openafs.org/cgi-bin/cvsweb.cgi/openafs/src/vol/namei_ops.c?only_with_tag=MAIN)

Need to modify the mappings of vice partitions to NTFS disk locations. Would prefer to permit arbitrary paths to the current drive letter mapping.

## <a name="Missing command line parameters"></a> Missing command line parameters

- Enable --syslog option for Windows servers. Consider using a project like <http://syslog-win32.sourceforge.net/> for linking to the AFS Services. A syslog daemon product such as <http://www.codeproject.com/KB/IP/Syslogd.aspx> can be used to collect the events.

- Enable --auditlog option. Must add support for Windows named pipes instead of files.

- Enable rx configuration options.

## <a name="Miscellaneous"></a> Miscellaneous

There are a number of random comments in the code choosing arbitrary values for Windows. Must replace arbitrary decisions with values based upon the actual capabilities of the system.

## <a name="Ignore kaserver"></a> Ignore kaserver

Assume that kaserver does not exist. Instead, we will count on the presence of either Active Directory or some external krb5 kdc.

## <a name="Viced"></a> Viced

- [[ProcessSize]] and STATS64\_PROCESSSIZE should be set to the Private Bytes allocation for the current process. Use [[GetProcessMemoryInfo]]().

- The arbitrary definiton of NT\_OPEN\_MAX should be replaced by an attempt to read the value of HKLM\\Software\\Microsoft\\Windows NT\\CurrentVersion\\Windows\\USERProcessHandleQuota which has a default value of 10,000 if the registry value is not present.
